COVER STORY
tinued support from the black population
for the Labour Party is still predominant.
In 1983 about 63 per cent of all blacks voted
for Labour. But Labour had yet to realise
that if blacks voted for them they had to be
seen as being promoted through party
ranks.
The right wing press and those to the
right of the political spectrum once again
lampooned the demands of Black Sections
as another form of left wing extremism.
Faced with opinion polls showing that
BLACK
SECTION
NO WITCH HUNT
AGAINST THE
be working within the confines of the
Labour Party rules and would be working
for a Labour victory at the next election.
What happens after the next election is
anybody's guess.
What is interesting, though, is the gain-
ing of power at local government level. It is
not totally by accident that the three Lon-
don boroughs which first elected black
leaders are those with the highest black
population in London.
These are Brent with Merle Amory,
Sharon Atkin who was suspended by the Labour
Party
for and won seats in local council elec-
tions. Russell Proffitt stood in the 1979
general election and received a respectable
25 per cent of the vote in the City of Lon-
don and Westminster constituency. Paul
Boateng stood for Hertfordshire but, as
with his two predecessors, was not elected.
His situation was not helped by the local
Labour Party in his constituency failing to
campaign for him actively because they
saw him as a candidate of the Labour party
nationally. "At least that was the official
reason they gave for not supporting him,"
one observer said.
It was also in 1983 that the Black Sec-
tions grouping within the Labour Party
first emerged at the Labour Party con-
ference. Within the party the group's main
body of support is from the far left. The
argument advanced by Black Sections is
that for years the Labour Party has been
happy to receive the vote of the black peo-
ple but do nothing to address the issues of
particular concern to them such as racism
in housing, education, immigration and
the general advancement of blacks in Bri-
tain as equal members of society.
They wanted affiliation to the party in
the same way that women and Jewish peo-
ple have official affiliation to the party.
Twice the group sought affiliation and
twice it was rejected.
Neil Kinnock gave the group publicity in
1985 when he entered the debate and he
has maintained consistently that there is
no room in the Labour Party for a grouping
based on a person's colour. But Labour did
set up a working party to study the issue
and while it accepted the claims made by
Black Sections, it chose instead to set up its
own body - the Black and Asian Advisory
Committee. This lacked the support of
many blacks and is now defunct.
Yet Black Sections have continued to
wage a public campaign. On the positive
side it has highlighted the fact that con-
AFRICAN CONCORD 11 JUNE 1987
BLACK
SECTION
FIGHT
RACISM
NO FRAME UP OF
SHARON ATKIN!
Lambeth Council leader Linda Bellos (facing camera) protesting for Black Sections and Sharon
Atkin
Labour could not win an election and in a
bid to demonstrate who was 'boss', Neil
Kinnock, with support from the Labour
Party, suspended Sharon Atkin last April.
Ms Atkin is a black prospective Parliamen-
tary candidate from Nottingham East - a
seat which she was due to contest at this
election.
Her 'crime was in calling the Labour
Party racist and claiming not to give a
damn about Mr Kinnock. Not quite the
stuff one would expect of a would-be
Parliamentarian but then again, not the
worst thing that has been said about the
Labour Party or its leader.
Anyone with a questioning mind might
have enquired whether there was anything
in Ms Atkin's statements, and on careful
consideration, one must admit that there
must be at least a grain of truth in her
outburst.
The four black candidates most likely to
be elected have kept quiet over the suspen-
sion of Sharon Atkin and on the move-
ment in general. This is particularly curious
because they are well-known supporters of
the grouping. They instead issued a joint
statement to the effect that they would all
Lambeth with Linda Bellos and until two
weeks ago Bernie Grant in Haringey. The
power of these black leaders aligned with
their colleagues on the left of the Labour
Party has in many ways redressed the
imbalance suffered at a national level,
especially under the Conservatives.
In many ways these local authorities
have carried on the legacy left by the GLC
in 1981. Black political power is meaning-
less without positive action, as opposed to
positive discrimination, in the everyday
lives of black people. If we examine educa-
tion in Britain, this is an area where there
has been a mass drop-out and under-
achievement among blacks.
This would not, perhaps, raise alarm
bells were it not for the fact that in areas
such as Brent, more than 50 per cent of
school children come from the New Com-
monwealth. Not addressing an area such
as this would be consigning a generation to
the margins of society 'black and
uneducated'.
-
It is to their credit that boroughs such as
Croydon and Brent have sought funding
from central government under section 11
of the 1966 Local Government Act to
11