COVER STORY
The chances of blacks
of blacks as MPs
Britain's black community has come a long way in emerging as a political force. Now, in this election,
we are likely to see some black candidates become Members of Parliament. Joel Kibazo examines the
possibilities.
The
he British general election of 11 June
promises to be different not only for
the reasons given here but also because it is
the first election in which we are likely to
see a number of black candidates in
Parliament.
It is important to note that the term
'black' means different things in different
societies. In Britain it means, more or less,
anyone who is not white (often, this may
even include Chinese and Arabs) but in
the main it refers to people of Afro-
Caribbean backgrounds or Asians from
the Indian sub-continent, thus singling out
the two main groups which immigrated to
Britain in the 1950s and 60s. For the pur-
poses of this article the term 'black' shall
refer to people of African or Caribbean
descent.
The ruling Conservative party is fielding
John Taylor, a 32-year-old barrister born
and bred in Birmingham, whose father
was a well-known cricketer. The Social
Democrat and Liberal parties, known
together as the Alliance, do not have any
black candidates. The main socialist oppo-
sition, the Labour Party, leads the way with
six black candidates.
These are: Diane Abbott, Paul Boateng,
Bernie Grant, Russell Proffitt, Ben Bous-
que and Crispin St Hill. With the excep-
tion of Mr St Hill, the other candidates are
standing in London constituencies, with
large black populations.
The first three candidates are almost cer-
tain to be elected as they are standing for
seats with big Labour majorities. Mr
Russell Proffitt is standing for a seat which
is held by the Conservatives, but with only
a small majority of less than 2,000, so he
stands an outside chance of making it to
the House of Commons.
-
The election of three or possibly four
blacks to the House of Commons will be a
remarkable achievement and yet logic
dictates that it should not be seen as anyth-
ing remarkable. When you consider that
black people have been in the British Isles
for more than 200 years through slavery.
colonialism, as immigrant workers or as
students, many would argue that it is high
time that the House of Commons lost its
aura of "an all white, male-dominated
middle class club."
Comparisons with the political situation
in the USA, where there are black Con-
gressmen and Senators, are unfair and at
best misleading. In the UK, blacks make
up at least three per cent of the overall pop-
10
EMPIRE
WINDRUSH
LONDON
Afro-Caribbean immigrants arrive in England just after the last World War on the Empire
Windrush
ulation. In the USA the figure is 15 per
cent; but in the UK, the black population is
concentrated in the inner city areas of Lon-
don. Birmingham, Manchester. Liverpool
and Bristol. If life was fair, then this con-
centration should have led to the election
of black Members of Parliament long
ago.
The reasons why this is not so are many
and varied, but briefly, when immigrants
arrived in the UK, many came to a society
where the environment, way of life and
customs were in many ways different from
their own. The odds were against them in
every possible way.
In their struggle to build a new life many
of them worked unsociable hours for a
meagre wage and lived in conditions
which were sub-human in comparison to
whites.
Add the element of racism which per-
vaded many aspects of British society, and
there was enough for black people to worry
about without his becoming involved in
British political life.
Not even in areas such as trade unionism
was there a glimmer of redress from the
totally white environment. In her 1987
book Black People and Party Politics in Bri-
tain. Marian Fitzgerald stated that the
same government which invited blacks to
work in the 'mother country' now passed
"successively more stringent measures to
ensure that people like themselves would
as far as legally possible, not again be
allowed to settle in this country; measures
which surrounded family reunions with
the bitter taste of bureaucratic suspicion
and downright hostility."
Gradually though, as the blacks became
more settled and more sure of their way in
British life. they started to become more
involved in political life. First it was
through organisations of their own, such
as anti-racist and anti-colonial groups.
In the 1970 general election David Pitt.
now Lord Pitt, a medical doctor from the
West Indies, stood for the safe Labour seat
of Battersea and saw a safe Labour majority
disappear in an 18 per cent swing to the
Conservatives. It is believed today that the
only reason why Pitt did not win was
because he was black. Even though on
three previous occasions the British had
elected Asians, this time the mood was
quite different. It simply 'wasn't on' to elect
a black person.
In the 1970s more and more blacks stood
AFRICAN CONCORD 11 JUNE 1987