LABOUR PARTY
BLACK SECTIONS
୧୮୩୦ ୦୮
9 JUN 1989
DRAFT
BLACK SECTIONS "ANTI-RACIST EDUCATION CHARTER"
the
Labour Party Black Sections beleive that black children and students should be
able to go to school, college and university without apology.
--
--
-
Black parents and students should have the right to anti-racist education and
equality of opportunity within the system.
The roots of racism in British imperialism and colonisation must be covered in
the curriculum, as well as the history and positive achievements of black people
throughout the world.
- Black teachers and black perspective at all levels of the curricula.
The teaching and recognition of black and minority ethnic languages to all children
in all education establishments.
- Recruitment of bi/multi-lingual staff.
Introduction of the anti-racist perspective into teacher training.
Introduction of proportional representation for the election of parental governors.
At least two black governors on each governing body.
Dismissal
of racist teachers, and expulsion of pupils/students found guilty of
racist harassment.
day
- Support mechanism for victims of racial harassment.
The
right for black students to organise autonomously within educational
establishments and their unions.
Right for black teachers to be self-organised within their institutions and
professional organisations.
All further and higher education establishments to implement Equal Opportunities
policy.
At least 10% of teaching staff should be black.
- Equal access for all black students to higher education.
-
-
black
Positive action and equality targetting for the training and recruitment of black
and minority ethnic staff.
An independent complaints and appeals body for black parents and students.
Universal nursery education for all.
- Integration of black studies at all levels in schools.
Financial renumeration for parent governors.
Black religious schools to be funded an the same basis of grant-aided
religious schools.
All education institutions must develop policies and strategies to implement
and promote anti-racist education, in consultation with black community and
black students.