BLACK SECTION CANDIDATES FOR THE NEC - 1986
We demand the immediate recognition of all the Black Sections
established in Constituency Labour Parties around the country. The
recommendations of the NEC's special working group in favour of Black
Sections being set up where Black party members want them should be
incorporated in the constitution. This means Black Section
representation at GMC, District Party, Regional party and national party
levels.
The party's national leadership has adopted a two-pronged attack on the
substantial gains made by the Black Section campaign. The first prong
has been to set up the neo-colonialist "Black and Asian advisory
committee". The second has been the expulsion from party membership of
two leading Birmingham supporters Amir Khan and Kevin Scally. These
tactics are well-known to us and have been perfected over many decades.
of "divide and rule". We totally oppose the witch-hunting of Socialists
from the Labour Party. Furthermore, we would refuse to serve on the
Black and Asian advisory committee or any other body aimed at Black
people but not elected by and accountable to them.
We are committed to furthering the Black Section's anti-imperialist
intervention in politics. This means stepping up the fight for Black
national liberation in Azania (South Africa), support for the demands of
the Palestinians and support for British withdrawal from Ireland.
Britain must withdraw from NATO. The grip on developing countries of
neo-colonialism and big business has to be broken. The Labour Party must.
replace its patronising approach to international aid and development
with policies relevant to Black people at home and abroad. But the most
urgent priority is to isolate racist South Africa. We restate the Black
Section's demands for:
1. Immediate disinvestment by unions and Labour authorities%;B
2. A national Labour Party fund to provide aid for Azania's freedom
fighters supported by a national publicity campaign spearheaded by the
trade union and Labour Party%;B
3. An officially-backed refusal by trade unionists to handle South
African goods;
4. The unconditional release of all South African political prisoners;
5. A manifesto commitment that a Labour Government will break off
diplomatic relations with Pretoria's racist regime and rescind rights to
residency in Britain of the one million White South Africans who
currently have this entitlement.
Labour must back up its anti-racist statements made in opposition with
bold action in government.
Labour's economic policies must be geared to full employment. Ownership
by the workers of the commanding heights of British industry must be
swiftly achieved. There must be a national minimum wage. Youth Training
Scheme slave wages must be ended. Trade union rights for all workers