HOUSING
2.
3.
The principle aims of current government policy are:-
End local authority house building
Fuller promotion of Council house sales
Deregulation of private rented sector
d) Dispose of Council housing to property developers, Housing
Associations or private owners
HOUSING ASSOCIATIONS
Black Housing Associations stand to be disadvantaged due to proposed
reductions in Housing Association Grant, from the Housing
Corporation. The shortfall is to be filled by private finance, but
Black Housing Associations will find it difficult to raise private
funds due to lack of security. Rents will rise to repay private
sector finance. Government should provide 100% grants to new and
small Black Housing Associations.
DEREGULATION OF RENTS/PRIVATE SECTOR
The rent act will end new lettings.
Landlords will let properties
on an assured or shorthold tenancy basis.
Assured tenancy means any property can be let in any condition at
market rate. A previous condition that the landlord must be
reputable and the property in reasonable condition no longer apply.
Shorthold tenancies are short-term (6 months to 1 year). After the
tenancy ends the landlord can re-let on a new basis.
The government's proposals make no specific refernce to racial
harassment, prospect of landlords harassing tenants to force them
thout in order to re-let the property on higher "market level" rents.
4. DISPOSAL OF ESTATES
Black
for
Black
Black
Pick-a-landlord proposals will give tenants the right to get
private landlord. Rents are likely to increase as a result.
tenants, who are generally poorer, may want to stay with the Council
but could be "outvoted" by other tenants.
CONCLUSION
1.
2.
There is a disproportionate number of Black people in Housing
Associations and around 75% of Housing Association tenants are on
Housing Benefit." Increased rents will not be matched by higher
Housing Benefit.
There is no specific reference to racial harassment. The private
landlords may harass Black tenants to force them out and re-let the
property on a higher rent.
in
bullies sending in
against racism.
-7-