LABOUR PARTY
BLACK SECTION
File Black Sectio
WHAT WE STAND FOR
You may have read a lot about the Labour Party Black Section in the press or
heard about it on TV or radio. But it is very rare for these reports to explain
what the Black Section stands for.
The Labour Party Black Section was formed six years ago (and the Birmingham
branch was formed three years ago) for two main reasons. First, to get a
better representation of Black people in the Labour Party and in British
political institutions generally. Although the overwhelming majority of Black
people (Afro-Caribbean and Asian) vote Labour, there are very few Black people
in high positions in the Party or elected as Councillors or MPs. We believe
that it was necessary for Black people to organise in the Labour Party to
change this.
There is no doubt that we have been succesful so far. For the first time ever,
four Black MPs were elected at the last general election. And wherever Black
Sections have organised, there has been an increase in the number of Black
Councillors elected. We believe that there should be at least FOUR Black MPs in
the West Midlands County to reflect the proportion of Black people living in
the County and at least THIRTY Black MPs in Britain as a whole.
The second reason for forming Black Sections is to pressurise for the Labour
Party to adopt anti-racist policies and to make the Party campaign against
racism. We are all familiar with the Labour Party saying some very good things
against racism when out of power, but failing to deliver the goods when in
power. In the Black Sections we believe that Black people should organise as
Black people both within the Labour Party and in their own community
organisations outside the Labour Party to make sure that the Labour Party is an
anti-racist party.
The Black Section does not believe in Black separatism. We believe that Black
people should be involved in all parts of the Labour Party - not just in Black
Sections. But we also believe that Black people should organise within the
Labour Party to ensure that we are not ignored. We believe that events have
proved us right wherever Black Sections have organised, more Black people
have joined the Labour Party.
Birmingham Labour Party Black Section does not just write leaflets or hold
public meetings. We are campaigning on a number of issues including the Poll
Tax, solidarity with the struggle against apartheid in South Africa and for the
restoration of the Race Relations and Equal Opportunities Committee on the City
Council. And of course we also campaign for a Labour victory in local and
national elections.
If you want to know more or want to join the Labour Party Black Section write
to:
Birmingham District Labour Party Black Section, c/o The Secretary,
71, Woodfort Road, Hampstead, Great Barr B43 5QN