-4-
has resulted in the present crisis of confidence
which has spawned Black Sections. If anything,
is divisive at the moment, it is the white,
middle-class male dominance of the Party
leadership. They seem hell-bent on preventing
us getting any closer to equal representation
and power-sharing. Yet they should not feel
threatened. By supporting the establishment
of an organised Black voice in the Labour
Party they will help strengthen Labour's
political appeal, for we believe that unless
concrete changes are made, come election time,
in key marginals (and there are at least 37 of
them) where the Black vote could make a
significant difference, abstentions could well
become the order of the day. Such a situation
would deny Labour the victory we all wish to see.
ng 5.
Q: BY EMPHASIZING RACE - AND NOT CLASS
-
SURELY
BLACK SECTIONS ARE OFFENSIVE TO THE TRADITIONS'
AND 'SPIRIT OF THE MOVEMENT'?
A: Challenging the 'traditions' and 'spirit' of
the movement ought not to be seen as 'offensive'.
The reality of the 'spirit of the movement' is
that it often seems to be embodied in male,
es middle-class, white representatives and it is
this which is deeply offensive - to Black people
and to women - and frankly must change.
This tradition has nothing to do with arguments
about 'merit', but everything to do with
historic patterns of privelege - the very thing
we in the Labour movement constantly say we
against but do so little to change.
are
In any event, the attempt to draw attention to
the reality of racism and the need for action
to put matters right, ought not to be seen as
detracting or minimising in any way the critical
importance of class to an understanding of the
force at play in society.
ba
-5-
It is merely an attempt to highlight yet
another significant dynamic which must be
taken account of in the struggle for social
justice.
6.
Q: HOW WOULD BLACK SECTIONS FIT INTO THE
STRUCTURE OF THE PARTY?
A: Black Sections, as with Women's Sections
would be an integral part of a local Party
with, as at present, full participation of
its members at every level of constituency
affairs, but would also create space in which
the dimension of race can be more fully
discussed, and not ignored as so often
happens in most Parties at present.
Arrangements would be made for the Constituency
Black Section to be represented regionally,
(on the Regional Executive) and nationally
(on the National Executive Committee) within
the Party.
7.
Q: MUST ALL BLACK PEOPLE JOIN THE BLACK SECTION?
A: No. We take the view, aware obviously of
some of the problems involved that, as with
women and their struggle against sexism in the
Party, Black members of the Party, where it is
desired, ought to be able to establish Black
be abl
Sections, so that frank and full discussion
can take place and proper programmes of action
devised. These will then be taken to the
Party for further discussion and implementation.
8.
Q: WOULDN'T BLACK SECTIONS PUSH BLACK PEOPLE BACK
INTO 'GHETTOES' AS WELL AS ENABLING WHITE
PEOPLE TO AVOID FACING UP TO THEIR
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR FIGHTING AGAINST RACISM?
A: No. Let us be clear, we are not talking
about creating cul-de-sacs or 'ghettoes'.
What we
are talking about is building a clear
avenue for free expression of thought, which