"docklands-type" situation which the Tory government can exploit by
turning these areas into playground of the rich over the comming thirty
years or so.
THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR: WHOSE AUTONOMY?
The voluntary sector, local groups/organisations that have already.
obtained charitable status or are seeking such status, play a very
important role in society. Tory government and Labour local authorities
have supported such organisations with opposing ideologies.
The voluntary sector often acts as a mediator between the people and the
ays ruling class establishment. Under-resourced and strained voluntary
organisations are filling the gaps in the social and welfare services
i. e. providing a service for the community.
The constant revision of the criteria for grant applications has also
made it very difficult for the voluntary sector to develop whilst the
en demands that are being made by the general public increase and the need
for voluntary groups to participate more closely with local authorities.
so as to keep an eye on them has become more intense.
T
bas
hist
Amongst the various different pressures facing the voluntary sector a
new threat has just recently risen it's head to threaten the autonomy
and accountability of all voluntary groups and especially Black groups.
There are hundreds of such cases one is described in detail below.
Recently the Home Secretary, Douglas Hurd and his underling John Patten.
began a clinical and co-ordinated campaign to get dismissed from post a
young Black activist who was working for a recently formed development
agency in St. Pauls Bristol, scene of the very first disturbances in the
1980's and most recently a drugs raid called Operation Delivery in 1986.
Kuomba Balogun had been employed by the St. Pauls Local Development
Agency in March of this year with the comprehensive task of co-
ordinating the response of Black voluntary organisation to the various
schemes and other proposed actions of the present government and a lot.
more beside.
His crime in the government's eyes was that he had a criminal record,
his opposition to the use of a community centre built 3 years after the
His out spokeness
1980 disturbances because of it's lack of facilities.
on issues of racism and police brutality and a host of other issues
which were affecting Black people.
Douglas Hurd and John Patten with other MP's called for his dismissal
claiming Kuomba was unfit to head the agency and publicly requested that
BS 1000, the sponsoring body should dismiss him or jeopardise 70 LDAs up
and down the country.
- 3 -