TRAINING FOR EMPLOYMENTпо типиточно дугтранна почтята
A major block of government employment strategy is skills training YTS
is largely unsuccessful. The new J. T. S. is worst still. The government
is now using forced recruitment tactics for the scheme by linking
benefits with willingness to attend these schemes or a job club. The
unemployed have very little choice.
If the Black community is to be successful in regenerating their
communities we have to devise means of controlling resources, people,
money and land. By controlling these vital resources we can begin the
ed task of deciding the priorities and financing them to the level
required. The economic development group of the Black Caucus is
currently working on these issues with Black sections and other
-dua organisations.
HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
PREFACE
Mainstream health care and its facilitating the Black inner city areas.
(Black Community), cannot be examined without looking at the historical
perspective if the Black sections are to adopt an effective strategic.
for the inner cities.
ybod
The arrival of Blacks from the Caribbean and Asian continents in the
50's and early 60's and how they were used to prop up the ailing state
system, post war.
Predominantly Black female labour was used as and became the 'blackboen'
of the working force although it was never officially recognised as
such. Later, doctors from the Indian sub-continent, Africa and the Far
East joined the NHS in areas of speciality which white doctors had
shunned.
The images that were, and still are generally, pertain there stereotypes
to this very day, where currently able and highly qualified Blacks,
targeted in these areas of employment.
The NHS has never been directed to develop health care for Black people
To- numerous conditions caused either through heredity or through changes.
in life-styles have not been addressed by government agencies, for
example, the efforts to counter the effects of sickle-cell anaemia and
thalassaemia have been led by Black people themselves. The occurrence
of rickets and heart-disease have not been adequately researched and
specific strategies have not been developed. The Black staff of the NHS
have been exploited mercilessly by the system; the Black section would
advocate the intellectual liberation of the widespread skills and
knowledge of the Black staff of the NHS in order to address the health
needs of Black people.
-5-