2.
Much more significant than
Action
for Cities is the package of
divisive new laws including the one bringing in the Community Charge
or poll tax. A recent study says ninety two per cent of Black
households in inner London will be worse off, with an average loss
to them of €759 a year if this deeply unpopular measure is
introduced.
Rate-capping has had a
disasterous effect on the ability of
progressive councils in the
inner cities to provide a safety-net
through the funding of Black voluntary groups. Vital services to the
Black elderly, unemployed and youth have been axed. Now even the
"creative accounting", which allowed some of the councils to lessen
the impact of rate-capping, has been banned. tedy od
vod
The Runnymede Trust's latest report notes that much of the "positive
action" taken by local councils - denounced as "loony left" - were
included in a green paper 10 years ago which was considered a modest
and constructive document. It concerned a bill to expand local
government's powers to offer grants for a wide-range of projects.
This was never passed because of Thatcher's election victory in
1979.
903
many skills should make
albal das" bea
The core of any positive action programme lies in training. But this
government is left sorely wanting. Yet the national shortage of
apppropriate training of Black people
doubly beneficial. Race monitoring is also essential because it
provides vital data which identifies precise areas of disadvantage
and a means of accurately checking progress.
We have warned that the government must take the responsibility when
the powder keg created by them explodes. The Tory tactic of control,
through the development of a small Black elite, and containment,
through oppressive law-enforcement, will blow up in their face.
There is still time for the government to turn back from the current
disasterous course. They could drop their objection to contracts
compliance and begin compelling
employers in the inner cities to
hire Black workers in proportion
to our numbers in the population.
Research has shown that American companies subject to contracts
compliance increased their Black work-force by 20 per cent compared
to 12 per cent in other companies. We are not talking about "quotas"
- they are illegal - but the "equality targets" without which there
will be only negligible results.
Isto ev
of "oldinstis
sloege"
The Tories must restore the ability of local authorities to raise
the necessary cash - from central government and the rates - to
tackle racism in the police
combat racial disadvantage. They must
and defend Black communities from the thugs bent on destroying our
lives. They must cease their divisive policy of allowing white-
dominated funding organisation to hold the power of life or death
over Black voluntary groups.
Black people must be granted
responsibility for the running of our own affairs.
doston Isands go
To rub salt in the wound, what were are seeing through initiatives
like the Docklands and Merseyside initiatives is tiny pockets. of
yuppie privilege in the midst of Our inner city islands of
disadvantage. What could be more divisive?
gabe sellfud
malosi danisge
上