-2-
(Neil Kinnock says: "There will be six or
Black M.P.'s in Parliament next
seven
round"
-
time
as if that is the be all and end
all of the changes required.)
In response, three things at least need to be
said. First, it is by no means necessarily
true that those people 'making progress' (!)
are 'representative' of Black people
although frankly, that is the way such
individuals are often presented.
-
Secondly, and much more fundamentally,
an overall structure to 'representation;
there is little chance of the overall strategic
changes that are desired, ever taking place.
In other words, the old colonial strategies
of 'divide and rule' are likely to continue
if change, geared towards greater Black.
involvement in Labour's affairs, isn't achieved.
Thirdly, use of such terms as 'regressive' and
gradual' display that disturbing paternalistic
tone, (some say racist) used by so many in the
Labour Party when looking at the struggle for
racial equality. In other words, they gloss.
over the demands of Black people for full and
direct participation NOW as a non-negotiable.
right, as no more than some
aaberration!
3.
unrealistic
Q: WHY ARE EXISTING ARRANGEMENTS INADEQUATE?
A: Let us first make clear we do not deny the
integrity of a handful of Labour Party activists
who have worked conscientiously for racial
equality. But the Party as a whole has
consistently failed to deliver positive policies
to combat the racial inequalities in housing,
employment, education and public services.
Neither has the Party got a credible record
on immigration laws and nationality.
symptomatic of the fact that the Party
This is
10
-3-
Headquarters has, over the years, neglected
to hear an organised voice from the Black
community either in its policy groups or on
the National Executive Committee (NEC). For
in the
whilst some Black representation occurs
Party, there is no systematic guarantee that
our views will be heard at all levels of the
Party hierarchy - i.e. at Parliamentary Labour
Party, NEC, Executive Committee, Local
Government Committee or General Management
Committee levels.
4.
-
Q: WOULDN'T BLACK SECTIONS BE 'DIVISIVE'
THEY BREACH THE PRINCIPLE OF TOGETHERNESS
IN THE STRUGGLE' ?
A: The Labour Party since its foundation has
always been a federal structure composed of
interest groups, regional blocs, local campaign
Ygroups and single issue groups. Each group has
been bound to the other by the common thread
of Socialism. Sometimes, it is beneficial in
our struggle, to examine the superficiality of
the concept of 'togetherness' when, as Black
activists, we feel it is the difference between
us and the rest of the Labour movement which
needs to be better understood. This is because
so many other people often use such differences
Igas the basis for kicking us to the bottom of
the pile. In other words, we must move away
from the 'colour blind' approach because it
merely masks a whole series of issues which
must be explored if racial equality is to be
created.
[imago Insmevom woods ads ni
It is absurd to characterise the efforts of those
of us who are seeking to develop ways of
challenging the complacency of the Party on
race as 'divisive'. After all, it is the
weakness of existing approaches and the
blatantly unprincipled compromise to racist
sentiments by the Party of old over such
matters as immigration and nationality which