[
C.
LABOUR PARTY BLACK SECTION PAPER ON THE INNER CITIES
"POSITIVE ACTION FOR CITIES"
March 1988
Conference is asked by the Executive Committee to endorse this as
a position paper for wider discussion.pos
For the overwhelming majority of Black people the "inner city" is
our home. Sixty eight per cent of Black people compared to 31 per
cent of white people in Britain live in the metropolitan
counties. * People of African and Asian descent were brought here
to do the dirty, low-paid jobs. They were cramped into squalid
housing in the ghetto conditions
of the inner cities. When jobs
became less plentiful, Black people were harassed by hostile
officials and the police as Conservative and Labour governments
pandered to racists by turning the screw of immigration laws. An
analysis of Department of Employment figures shows that 32 per
cent of 16 to 24 year old Black men are out of work compared to 18
per cent of white men in the same age group.
are
The education system has failed Black children. In the past it
consigned "West Indian" pupils to the dustbin of schools for the
educationally sub-normal. Bengali children
now being
disadvantaged to become the new "under-achievers". Racist attacks
have gone unpunished while,
in contrast, Black people have been
crime and
scape-goated for
pursued by special police squads.
Discrimination at work has been sometimes perpetrated by employer
and union official alike.
It is against this background that Black people have organised
themselves to fight-back and survive. This resistance has taken
the form of protest groups, self-defence campaigns and self-help
voluntary organisations. Youth, totally alienated by the racism
they face in the system, have rebelled through uprisings.
Electoral action has so often seemed a fruitless exercise when the
a main political parties' unwritten concensus
on race has led many
Black people to feel they must
choose between different evils at
the polls.
intent
wod
third
Now the Margaret Thatcher wants to clinch top honours by putting
the boot in more ruthlessly than any previous government. She
posted her
in 1987, after the Tory party's
consecutive General Election win, by saying she planned to pay
"special attention" to the inner cities. Her proposals do not
include the huge injection of cash for regeneration which is
necessary to arrest the massive decay and despondency brought
about by her government's destruction of manufacturing industries.
That is clear from the glossy but totally empty "Action for
Cities" package launched this month.
All Thatcher proposes is a screen of cosmetic initiatives behind
which big business and law enforcement agencies will get to work
on the real project of bringing the inner cities to heel. That
means more attacks on local democracy because Labour authorities
in these areas have progressive policies. And more strong-arm
tactics against Black people
the Tories cast in the role of
bullies sending in coercive police instead of launching a crusade
against racism.