This was resisted passionately by the National Fund that paid the grant
to Bristol for as long as it possibly could. The government pressured
BS 1000 long and hard and when that was not successful enough, underling
John Patten introduced new rules that was to come into immediate effect
so as to dismiss Kuomba from his post setting a very serious precedent
for every other voluntary organisation nationally.
been
EMPLOYMENT
The government has sought to create a smoke screen in order to counter
some of the criticisms that it has faced. The "Enterprise Culture"
which was implemented in the United States in the sixties has been
adopted lock, stock and barrel by the government. One of the mainstays
of this enterprise culture is the establishment of schemes by liberal-
minded businesses - usually under the glare of television spotlights
for the unemployed to work for benefits or to live in poverty.
youth in Britain have rejected this and are opting out daily and are
suffering incredible hardship or hustling for a living. Far from
improving the conditions, these measures are exacerbating the problems
they seek to solve.
Black
SPECIAL EMPLOYMENT MEASURES (SEM)
Task forces are the most notable manifestation of SEMS so far. They
have been put into 16 areas up and down the country and seek to work
directly with the community. In fact they have generally ignored the
needs of the Black community and created a lot of tensions within those
communities. The most sinister aspect of task forces is that they are
linking up a number of agencies that relate to crime prevention and
information gathering. The Black Caucus have organised a series of
meetings around task forces and are soon to publish their findings.
Black community must develop an organised response to these measures and
the Black Caucus are facilitating these responses.
It is crucial for us that we begin to develop strategies that allow us
at the moment to monitor the situation. We believe there is a
fundamental flow in the overall strategy in promoting enterprise culture
as a major means of employment generation and we are certain that the
measures that have been adopted are harmful to the welfare of the Black
community. For example the Enterprise Allowance shceme has meant that
Black people attempting to start businesses in a depressed economy with
a lack of develoment capital and a dearth of support services to help
with marketing accounting and management. In short they are bound to
fail. Yet job centres and employment agencies are steering unemployed
Blacks in droves to start these businesses. It is notable that the £40
a week allowance on
on the scheme is a lot less than most people are
eligible for under social security.
4 -