and
means, no limit, apart from social services and police record will be
used to compile information with which to produce the poll tax
registration. The registration will be the responsibility of the
registration officer (RO). Any evation of more than 20% will force
cinner city residents who register for the poll tax to pay more (less in
affluent areas) to enable a local authority to collect the same amount
of revenue. In time the widespread non-registration will lead to the
issuing of passes - apartheid-style.
THE EFFECTS OF THE COMMUNITY CHARGE ON BLACK PEOPLE
The poll tax will have the devastating effect on Black people or
households. For instance about 90 - 94% of Black people live in inner
city areas, and most of these areas end up with the very highest poll
tax bills. Unemployment is highest amongst Black people and as such,
they are in the lower income bracket. Above all, Black people in most
cases, because of their lower income and finding accommodation
difficultly, tend to live in larger households. These people will be
hit the hardest, since the poll is not related to the ability to pay.
For example, the average poll tax bill for a Black family household can
be as much as £800 or more compared to an average £400 for white
households. There is no means of knowing or explaining how the rebate
system help low income families.
THE EFFECTS OF COMMUNITY CHARGE ON THE LOCAL AUTHORITY
The change to the poll tax system would force local authorities to cut
spending to meet the central government's demand in minimum spending
level, thus a further ratecapping on local authorities. This will put
the restraint on the council to force cuts in services and lower
standards to the detriment of those in need. Since, any expenditure
would have to be financed through the PCC, any increase cannot be raised
through the National Non-Domestic Rate (NNDR) as before.
It is difficult to assert how the system would affect each or different
wards but there are strong indications and evidence that it will affect
everybody and the number of losers will far out number those that will
gain by it. For instance, 17% only pay more in some affluent areas
while over 96% of households in the inner cities will be worse off. In
effect, the poll tax system will mean bigger bills for the poorest,
mainly Black families who are already bearing the brunt of inner city
deprivations and smaller bills for the rich.
The transformation of the poll tax system is extended to 1990 so that
traumas of the transition could be absorbed gradually.
measures of harshness and the severity with which the poll tax system is
anticipated.
The long term impact of the poll tax will be the migration labour from
areas with a high taxation to those areas with the lower tax, thus
emptying many inner-city areas and breaking-up families and communities.
Those unable to move, will live in areas of decline, creating a
2 -