THE COMMUNITY CHARGE
Upto 1987, the main weapon used by government was the system of taxation
and the distribution of government revenue. The emphasis has shifted
from direct to indirect taxation, followed by reductions in public.
spending, rate capping and the current proposals for the poll tax - all
have broken the relationship with the ability to pay. To give just one
example, local authorities in inner cities have lost over t2 billion in
rate support grant, with some such as the abolished GLC and the to-be-
abolished ILEA receiving no money from the taxes. The poll tax
proposals come as a logical follow-up to the increasing pressures of
Value Added Tax. no dos
The poll-tax which is emphatically called Personal Community Charge
(PPC) is set by the local authority at the beginning of each financial
Ja year.
year. The only people exempted from paying will be:
ad 1. The 18 year olds still at school for whom child benefit are paid
2. Convicted (not on remand) prisoners
3.
People with severe mental disabilities
Unemployed people receiving housing benefit and students will be
new liable to pay 20% of the poll tax. ea
and
Juo The second method of collecting the poll tax will be the Collective
Community Charge (CCC). This applies to some houses with multiple
dug occupation and shared flats, for example, where there are many adults.
living together in households. In this case, the landlord will be given
the responsibility of collecting or recouping the costs of the charge
beats from the residents through collective community charge contributions.
The individual contribution will be calculated on a daily basis and
charged with any rent that is paid.
Joe A third charge will be the standard community charge which is levied on
second homes, holiday lets etc., at a rate higher than the PPC.
at
I
If arrears
every case, the poll tax is not related to ability to pay.
build up, a 30% or £50 surcharge as interest will be imposed after 3
months.
REGISTRATION
Each local authority area will have a poll tax register. This will
contain the names of the people whose "sole or main residence" are in
the area. The register will be a "rolling register" which means it will
be constantly updated - unlike the electoral register which is produced
yearly. Every resident over 18 living in the area will have to
register. Certain "responsible person" will be nominated in each
household to ensure that everyone in the house is included in the
register. Failure to provide information properly is punishable by a
fine of £50, rising to £200 for any further offences. Every source of
-1-