1.
2
3.
4.
5.
STRATEGIES: FOR EFFECTIVE DEPOLYMENT OF BLACK WORKING STAFF
1.1 Organising and affiliating Black nurses, auxillary staff to
local constituency Black sections. This would, and should
cover mainstream health care, nursing colleges, mental care,
nursery nurses and Black management with a programme for
organising their own agenda policies, criteria, with local
constituency B. S. acting as the catalyst.
Where there is lack of awareness, concern without evidence, B. S.
should provide the education and information in terms of resources
although capitation and self determination must not be seen as the
sole province of local B.S.
National Black Section should have a Health and Social Services sub-
committee to overview and see to the implementation of a national
plan outlining strategies in inner city areas, and the Black
community as a whole.
B. S. must have access to Local Health Authorities, places must be
set aside for members of B. S. who are nominated to represent their
constituancy. It must not be overlooked that any Black group who
seeks or has its own independant means of self organising and
determination may seek to equally gain representation on the above
body.
Interim and annual reports should be submitted by Local B. S. and
national B. S. with a view of gaining the local and national
overview.
6. A/R policies should be adopted for all Health Authorities via local
and National Black Sections, into all aspects of the service with
particular view of parity and affirmative discrimination for Black
staff.
7. Trade unions representing the Health Service should equally be
approached to adopt A/R policies and provide information and update
on all aspects of its endeavours and casework, by B. S. and Black
Health groups.
8. Monitoring of the effectiveness of any strategy adopted by B. S. for
Health care, should bear emphasis on any factor which sees an
overpresentation, or disproportionate number of Blacks being
so treated, i. e. Mental Health Care should be highlighted, tabled at
B. S. National Executive.
28
9.
Recruitment of Health Service staff, for health care, B. S.
10. PRIVATE SECTOR
Deployment and employment of Black staff should be monitored, A/R
policy adopted.