TOTTENHAM LABOUR PARTY
MP'S REPORT
A.
1.
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A OAA,
PARLIAMENTARY FEEDBACK
VAUXHALL BY-ELECTION
HAY 1989
The Labour Party NEC acted in my view, in a very undemocratic
in imposing
a
manner
candidate on the Vauxhall party. The original NEC
shortlist didn't contain the majority of those nominated by the wards,
including Martha Osamor, Linda Bellos, Marc Wadsworth and Russell
Proffitt. I was particularly concerned that they did not select
of these and gave various spurious reasons for their non-selection.
any
in
These included in the case of Martha that she was too "simple",
the case of Russell that he worked for Brent Council and the papers
would use that against him. Another reason was that by-elections
national events and the person selected must be able to represent
Party nationally. A number of questions arise immediately.
are
the
of
Is a worker for any organisation now responsible for the policies
that organisation and not the owners or elected members? Are we to
have a two tier system of selection with desirables now able to stand
in by-elections and undesirables only able to stand in general
of
and
elections? Will we now see an "A" team of white only by-election
candidates and maybe a few token blacks who have no chance
selection because of lack of experience, and a "B" team of blacks
others who won't be able to compete? What does the NEC now mean by
being able to represent the Party nationally? Are they talking about
a whites-only Labour Party? ( I noticed that the recent full page
advertisement in the Guardian heralding the Policy Reviews didn't have
any non-white people in it.) Is this the new face of the Labour Party?
2. EUROPE
The Tories appear to have finally begun to tear themselves apart over
Europe and we must capitalise on this in the coming European elections
by working all out for a victory by Pauline Green. We should use the
Euro-elections to demonstrate Thatcher's unpopularity and in doing
sow even greater divisions in the Tory ranks. It is growing more and
more clear that Thatcher is out of tune with the rest of Europe in
wanting the EEC to be a purely ecomonic institution, with no concern
for social well being, and we should not hesitate to push this
message home.
3. ECONOMY
The rows are beginning to surface in the Tory party over monetary
policy. Mrs Thatcher, because of lack of support for her position,
has been forced to bring back Prof Alan Walters to boost up her
flagging monetarist position in the light of attacks by Geoffrey Howe
and the Chancellor, especially on the question of monetary union
within Europe. Mrs T recently blamed the Chancellor for the rise in
inflation. She was subsequently forced to apologise to him for her
remarks. Inflation is again on the move despite a slowing down in