00000
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A 0AA
is
sector. Are we really expected to believe that the Government
committed to preserving the NHS in the face of these kinds of
appointments? Needless to say no space can be found on the board for
a nursing representative !
7. TRANSPORT
There have been some interesting developments lately on this front
lately, culminating in the recent announcement that the Government
is
devote £6,000 million to road building in the next few years, to
finance a major motorway building programme. It is also to encourage
the development of so called Toll Roads. (I have heard of one law for
the poor and one for the rich, but are we now to have separate roads
too ?!)
in mind to
roads, which
Clearly the only solution which the Government has
Britain's transport problems is to build more and more
Will lead to more and more traffic and more and more congestion
especially as all the roads will in the end lead to the same already
congested parts of the country, such as London. The ELAS proposals are
clearly part and parcel of this crazy approach. (see later)
8. RIGHT TO REPLY AND PRIVACY BILLS
to
The might of the media, and associated forces combined as expected
kill of both of these Bills, with all the vested interests coming out
in force to defeat them.
9.
PARLIAMENTARY QUESTIONS
I asked questions on the following in the past period : Tax Allowances
to large Corporations in Enterprise Zones
Planning
permission
in Enterprise Zones: Student Loans Plan: Payment of Social Security
Benefits to the disabled when residing abroad.
B. CONSTITUENCY MATTERS
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I would like to thank the Party and all the many individual nenbers
who sent messages of condolence on the death of my mother on the 22nd
April. On behalf of my family, I thank you all, and especially for the
floral tribute which was sent to her funeral fron the Party. Your
kindness
and that of the community generally, has been a great
consolation to us through a very difficult period.
1. POLICE ATTACKS ON THE BLACK COMMUNITY
As members may have read in the press, the situation as regards the
relationship between the Police and the black community in Tottenham
has taken a serious turn for the worse in recent weeks, and I have
felt it
necessary to speak out strongly on this. The number and
seriousness of the cases which have come to my attention have left me
with little option. The invasion of the homes of three black families,
by large numbers of Police with dogs, for no reason, involving
unnecessary violence and racial abuse, followed by the charging of
members of the families who tried to defend themselves,
is totally
unacceptable, and must be seen
of
and must be seen in the context of a rise in the number
incidents reported to me and other agencies of the harassment of
black people in Tottenham.