00000
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON
SW1A OAA
5. M.P.'s OFFICE
Once again, whilst I must thank those who have come in to give their
help, I would like to ask other Party members to consider whether they
can
spare a little time to give a hand in the office at 247a. I have
only one full time and one part time staff, who are stretched to the
extreme. I still very much need someone who can type, and there are a
large number of other routine tasks which can easily be done by
volunteers. Hours are to suit, as the office is often open late into
the evening and at weekends if you have time then. If you can offer to
help, please ring 800 5994 without delay!
6. LATEST LIBELS
At the risk of spreading the untruth further afield, I should like to
state that there is no basis whatsoever in the the allegation that I
am the proud possessor of a second home in Wales, or anywhere else for
that matter. I am seeking an apology from the magazine concerned.
7. LOCAL ENGAGEMENTS
I
to
attended the following events in April/May: Opening of One Spirit
Batik Workshop, Winkfield Community Centre 3 Seven Sisters Meeting
Plevna Day Nursery 3B Health Authority Meeting ; Visit of Minister
St. Anns Hospital ; Launch of Lemmy Findlay Trust, WILC ; Photo-call
With Pauline Green Annual Council Meeting ; THORN Road Proposals
Public Meeting 3 Broadwater Farm Defence Campaign ; Public Meeting
Policing in Tottenham.
C. OTHER ENGAGEMENTS
on
Launch of the Parliamentary Black Caucus ; Anti-Apartheid National
Committee, Glasgow ; SWAPO Public Meeting %33 London AAM Kassinga Day
West Indian Standing Conference AGM
Anglo Dutch Conference,
Northampton 3 Police Complaints Authority 3B Meeting with Cheddi Jagan,
Guyana Opposition Leader ; National Assn of CABX ; Black Doctors Assn
Annual Dinner ; Prism Group.
PRESS AND MEDIA
For various reasons there has been quite considerable press and media
attention since my last report. The launch of the Parliamentary Caucus
attracted a considerable amount of international press coverage,
particularly in the USA. I also did a review of "Mississippi Burning"
for 01 for London. I have also taken part in one of Granada's
"Hypotheticals" series on racism, the police and other issues, which I
gather is to be shown on Wed 31st May at 10.45. The Policing problems
in Tottenham have attracted considerable local and black press
interest, and the Vauxhall selection has of course given rise
great deal of coverage.
to a
BERNIE GRANT M.P.
24.5.89