HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A 0AA
credit and "better" monetary control. Petrol price rises, lack of
local authority funding from the Govt resulting in large rate
and higher than inflation wage settlements (eg the power
workers) All this is contributing to a call from the city for even
higher interest rates as a way of checking inflation. Together with
these worries, house values in the South-East are falling rapidly,
by some 10% in
recent weeks. These will give the Govt severe
headaches, and cause many of their newly won supporters to think
again.
4. NAMIBIA
the
I spoke in the House of Commons on the current situation in Namibia on
April 13th and clearly the South Africans are continuing their
repressive policies. The main target of South Africa is the Namibian
people's organisation SWAPO who face an immense financial task in
UN monitored election campaign which runs from July to November 1989.
SWAPO has to provide for the return of thousands of refugees as well
as financing its own election campaign to compete against the massive
Apartheid supported parties and alliances.
The Anti-Apartheid Movement have set up a SWAPO Election Campaign
Appeal. This Appeal has the full support of the Labour Party, the TUC,
the SLD and the SDP. I trust that Wards will discuss Namibia in their
from
meetings, raise money for the Appeal and distribute information to
their members. Leaflets, speakers & videos are available
Haringey AA (881-8878).
I
am currently working with rap singers including the Cookie Crew,
Monie Love, MC Mell'o' and Overlord X to make a record called "Beyond
the 16th Parallel". This record will be released in the Summer and
will raise money for the struggle against Apartheid.
5. POLICY REVIEW
I have not yet received a copy of this document, but from what I have
read in the press, I feel that we shall have an uphill struggle to
sell the policies contained in the review to the electorate.
6. HEALTH
The strength of opposition to the White Paper continues to concern
many Tory backbenchers with marginal seats, as well as not so marginal
ones. The key opposition at the moment is coming from the medical
profession, and Kenneth Clarke's much publicised agreement with them
is proving somewhat farcical, as their campaign against the White
Paper is continuing unabated. I think it is very clear that the public
simply does not believe the lies which the Government is putting out
about the purpose of the White Paper, and Kenneth faces an enormous
hiccup in his personal rise to political stardom.
As if
health
to convince us all of their commitment to publicly provided
care, the government yesterday announced the appointment of
number of
of infamous industrial axemen to run it. Rover Cars asset-
stripper Graham Day, and British Steel union basher Sir Robert Scholey
will join Sainsbury's supremo Sir Roy Griffiths and British Aerospace
boss Sir Kenneth Durham on the new NHS policy board. These are all
people who have built their reputation by privatising the public