300
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A OAA
I
me to
the
of
the Home
to Chief
have attempted in recent months to use the channels open to
get this problem addressed. I have written to the Commander
Metropolitan Police Peter Imbert, and to Douglas Hurd,
Secretary, as well as having referred a number of
Superintendant Stacey of the Tottenham Police.
has been entirely unsatisfactory - either to deny that such
police Force, or to insist that there
response
In
cases
each
case the
racism exists in the
acceptable channels for dealing with such complaints. Neither
course true.
are
is of
community met to
meeting took
literally
of the
about this
I therefore felt that it was time that the black
decide how it respond to this worsening situation. The
place at the West Indian Centre on Sunday 21st May, and was
standing room only. I feel that the attendance was a measure
frustration which is building up in the black community
issue. The meeting agreed on certain steps which could be taken, which
I Will report to the General Committee. I was pleased
that some Councillors managed to attend the meeting, but
that more Tottenham Councillors did not attend. The party must be seen
to respond to this major issue when the community requires it.
2.
I
ELAS ROAD PROPOSALS
incidentally
disappointed
With
met with other London M. P. 's and Paul Channon about this,
very little information about the Government's intentions.
but got
that no announcement will be made until late summer about whether the
appears
proposals will implemented. However I have kept in close contact
local campaigners on the this, and protested in the local press and to
the Minister, about the fact that letters written by Tottenham
have been met by responses which are devoid of any
people
implications of
mention
the proposals for Tottenham as
of the
(now a marginal seat of course.) I spoke also at a meeting
opposed to Hornsey
500 people at Tottenham Town Hall against the proposals
of about
There is enormous opposition building up against the
this month.
THORN, the local group organising the campaign is to be congratulated.
proposals, and
3. PUBLIC WORKS REDUNDANCIES
I was approached by local workers whose jobs are threatened who
concerned that residence in the borough seemed to be an irrelevant
consideration in the selection for redundancy. I wrote to Public Works
to enquire as to whether this was true, and found this to be the case.
I really do think that this is to be deplored. It cannot be right that
Haringey workers, who after all are themselves paying the rates.
support the service, are losing their jobs, while other who live
away often in Tory boroughs are losing theirs.
might take this on board.
Perhaps councillors
4. CLOSURE OF THE RACE EQUALITY UNIT
which
miles
I was amazed to hear on the grapevine that the Council's Race Equality
Unit has been closed down. I gather this was done without consultation
with anyone, even the Labour Group. This a very serious development in
my opinion, and requires some explanation. If the local leadership,
like the national leadership, finds race issues an embarrassment, then
it should have the courage to say so.