ENDING HUNGER
It was with great sadness that the PBC learnt of the death of Mickey Leland, the Democratic Congressman for Texas, a
crusader against world hunger.
There were no survivors when Mickey's plane, with 17 people on board, crashed into mountains in Ethio-
pia, about three hundred miles from Addis Ababa. He was leading a delegation on a visit to a camp for 30,000
Sudanese refugees. In tribute to Mickey's mission to put "the poor, the starving and the dispossessed" on the
political agenda, we reprint his article, 'Ending Hunger', published a year ago in the Congressional Black
Caucus' magazine, "Point of View".
At least 20 million Americans do not
have an adequate diet on a consistent ba-
sis. They suffer from hunger. They are
within the poorest one-fifth of the popu-
lation that receives less than five percent
of the family income while the wealthiest
one-fifth receives 44 percent of the na-
tion's family income.
Hunger and poverty are inextricably
bound both in the reality of empty cup-
boards in the homes of the poor and in the
concepts used for study and analysis.
Poor people do not have enough money
to buy sufficient food for an adequate
diet. The official poverty guidelines
originated with the "economy food plan"
of the U.S. Department of Agriculture
multiplied by a factor of three, based on
the assumption that a family spent one-
third of its income on food. Today, those
with the lowest incomes expend nearly
43 percent of their income on food.
The federal food programs that were
put in place to prevent hunger have been
undermined by a concerted effort by the
Reagan Administration. Forty percent of
the people in poverty do not get food
stamps; those who do get them find it dif-
ficult to eat on 51 cents a meal. Because
the total benefit is inadequate for a
month, the food gap is filled by the ever-
growing network of food banks, soup
kitchens and pantries. A just and equita-
ble society should not depend on emer-
gency food distribution to remedy hun-
ger.
Food programs must be restored and
expanded until they provide for all the
hungry. We cannot expect people to
have the energy and drive required to
emerge from poverty in this rigorous,
competitive society without proper nu-
trition. Today, all poor Americans are
By Rep. Mickey Leland (D.TX)
suffering from restrictive application
policies and insufficient benefits.
There must be increased information
and outreach about food stamps, the food
program for young and old, working and
not working. There must be greater ac-
cess to the program, less red tape in ap-
plication and more experimentation with
methods of reducing stigma, including
cash-out and credit cards.
Proper nutrition is crucial in the early
months of life. The Special Supplemen-
tal Food Program for Women, Infants
and Children (WIC) provides necessary
nutrients to improve pregnancy out-
comes and enhance development. Low
birth weight is the most significant factor
in infant mortality rates. The United
States has fallen behind other in-
dustrialised nations in reducing infant
mortality. It now ranks 17th. Histori-
cally, the Black infant mortality rate has
remained twice that of the white infant
mortality rate. If the minority differen-
tial could be eliminated, the United
States would move back into a lead posi-
States would move back into a lead posi-
tion. To achieve improved infant mortal-
ity rates, WIC should be available to
every low-income mother and child at
nutritional risk. Now, the program
reaches only 40 percent of those eligible.
although we know that the program is ex-
tremely cost effective.
According to research, low income
individuals are often deficient in vita-
mins A and C. These vitamins are found
in fresh fruits and vegetables which peo-
ple often forego because they are expen-
sive and often unavailable. A new pro-
gram for WIC families to address this
situation has been proposed in the Farm-
ers' Market Nutrition Enhancement Act.
It establishes a pilot program to give the
WIC families coupons to buy fresh pro-
duce at farmers' markets.
The program is based on successful
models in Massachusetts, Iowa, Con-
necticut and Vermont. Experience there
has shown that increased sales encourage
farmers' markets in low income neigh-
bourhoods and that residents of these
communities have been receptive to
farmers' markets, often gaining access to
high quality produce for the first time.
Recognising the importance of early
childhood development, the Head Start
Program was established in the 1960s. It
combined education, nutrition programs
and parental involvement, nurturing both
mind and body and proved cost effective.
Yet, the Head Start Program has been cut
back drastically. Waiting lists abound. It
is imperative that almost five million
poor children in the nation, a majority of
whom are minorities, have the opportu-
nity this program affords.
Improvement and expansion of the
child nutrition programs is required for
an improved impact on eight million
school-age poor children. Most receive
free or reduced price school lunches, but
school breakfast and summer food serv-
ice programs reach only a small number
of eligible poor children. Less than four
million children receive school break-
fast. This means that there are four mil-
lion children in school whose morning
hours may be wasted. Less than 1.5 mil-
lion partake of summer food service, the
only food supplement available during
the summer months.
Nutritional vulnerability is common
to youth and the aged. Three and a half
million elderly live in poverty with the
attendant nutritional shortfalls. Among
the poor elderly, fifty-three percent are
chronically limited in their activity. The
level of unmet need for congregate and
home-delivered meals has been widely
documented. Shortened stays in hospi-
tals following Medicare reform legisla-
tion also increase the number of frail eld-
erly needing home-delivered meals. The
authorisation of Title III-C elderly nutri-
tion programs should be expanded to
meet the need.
In 1983, Congress authorised the dis-
tribution of cheese, non-fat dry milk,
flour and other commodities held in stor-
age by the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture for use at home by families. This
was in addition to traditional deliveries
to school and charitable programs. Over
the years, millions of persons used these
commodities which reached them
through local government and voluntary
agencies. Now, many commodities are
no longer in surplus and thus no longer
available. Provision should be made to
assure that poor families who have come
to rely on this source of food are not
faced with a sudden deprivation.
Clearly, the abundance of America
should not be wasted when people are
hungry. Legislation to encourage glean-
ing and the contribution of food from
commercial sources should be enacted
and expanded where necessary. This in-
cludes liability protection and tax incen-
tives to donors.
During the past decades, there have
been continuing arguments about the ex-
istence of hunger and the methods used
to identify it. The Federal Government
has both the capacity and the responsibil-
ity to measure nutritional status and food
availability and security. Millions of
federal dollars are spent on food con-
sumption research to guide industry on
sumption research to guide industry on
food trends of the middle class. There is
no thorough study of the lack of food
consumption. Such surveys should be
conducted and released on a timely basis,
conducted and released on a timely basis,
with appropriate sub-samples to assure
that information about minorities who
are at nutritional risk can be captured.
Beyond benefits of nutrition pro-
grams, income support programs such as
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and
Aid for Families with Dependent Chil-
dren (AFDC) must reach all who are eli-
gible and must provide for minimal
needs more decently. Recent Congres-
sional testimony indicated that only fifty
to sixty percent of those eligible partici-
pate in SSI. The AFDC program benefits
fall below 50 percent of the poverty line
in thirty-two states. The reference to
family in AFDC is a misnomer because
economic injustice and the failure of
leadership in many sectors-but wages
and housing are most significant.
The Federal budget tells the story. In
1980, the Federal budget figures (with no
adjustment for inflation) provided for
$811.00 per person to national defence
and $525.00 per person for low income
programs. By 1987, military expendi-
tures had risen to $1,158.00 per person
and per capita outlay for low income pro-
grams had shrunk to $492.00.
In such excess there is great waste.
An Allen wrench that cost the Depart-
ment of Defence $9,606.00 in taxpayers'
dollars, would provide three four-person
families with food stamps for more than
a year. The cost of a single Trident nu-
clear submarine -$1.2 billion - could
bring the WIC program to most of those
who are eligible but not served for a year.
in twenty-three states it is not available to The $148 billion interest on the national
two-parent families.
debt for one year would pay for all the
food assistance programs for the next
seven years.
The traditional path out of poverty
and hunger has been employment. This
journey requires support and incentive.
Unfortunately, many newly created jobs
pay only the minimum wage, $3.35 an
hour, a rate unchanged since 1981. There
can be no relief from hunger for families
living on wages that leave them far below
the poverty level even when the work is
year-round and full-time.
In the same way, lack of affordable
housing erodes a family's capacity to
purchase an adequate diet. Federal sup-
port for low income housing has fallen
eighty percent in the last decade. We see
the result in the homeless persons on the
streets and in shelters, but we do not see
the families who pay exorbitant rents and
utilities and have little left for food and
other necessities. Hunger is the result of
Bambaya
Seafood, Vegetarian Restaurant
Caribbean, African, Black American Food
1 Park Road, London N8
Parties catered for
01-348 5609
Takeaway Service
Open 6 days a week
Our major challenge today is to re-
verse these tragic trends. All Americans
- but especially minorities who suffer
disproportionately should not be ex-
cluded, as they largely have been, from
sharing in the prosperity of the future.
Nor should they be forced to pay the bills
of a spending-spree society which
characterised the 1980s.
The American people demand re-
sponsible government. It is tragic to rob
human lives of their full potential be-
cause of lack of the basic nutrients for
growth and development. Freedom from
hunger is a basic human right and a fun-
damental need. It has been the historic
promise of our society. We must not de-
lay in making it a reality for all.
-16 The Black Parliamentarian
The Black Parliamentarian - 17-