POINTS OF ORDER:
HOW TO ORGANISE SEMINARS
Four seminar sessions were held during the inaugural weekend in April at London's Commonwealth
Institute. Headlined "Agendas for Black Advancement", they were on International Affairs, Eco-
nomic Development, Political Development and Education. Most of you who attended enjoyed the
space to air strongly-held views and to debate contentious ones. But what about those annoying
things you wished you had had time to complain about to the PBC organisers? Well, The Black Par-
liamentarian has compiled a selection of the most frequently overheard mutterings during the meet-
ings. The PBC looks forward to hosting future seminars-supported by you-which will take into
account these points....
B. R. O. T. H. E. R
BEYOND THE 16TH PARALLEL
-
-
B.R.O.T.H.E.R. stands for Black Rhyme Organisation To Help Equal Rights. It was set up by
Gatecrash, a group of musicians "from the streets of London". Their aim is to use the music of the
streets rap and reggae to entice more young Black people to get involved in Black issues.
Bernie Grant made his recording debut as the special guest on the group's first record - an all-star
anti-apartheid single featuring the best of Britain's young rap crews. All the artists' royalties go to
the African National Congress. The record kicks off with a self-penned rap by Bernie explaining the
significance of the 16th Parallel.
BERNIE'S RAP
"The 16th Parallel is a line drawn by whites through Angola
And the Racists say that blacks can't cross that line
The South Africans say that the SWAPO Freedom Fighters
Can't cross that line
The Parallel applies in Angola
It applies in Namibia
And in South Africa
But the Parallel also applies in Britain
When white racists say that black people
Especially the youth, can only go so far and no further
As black people we must smash the 16th Parallel
As people we must unite and smash
The racist South African Government and free South Africa
ANC and SWAPO will win
Amandla!
* Observe strict time-keeing
* Provide smaller workshops
*
Have more ushers on duty
* Shorten and structure agedas
* Hold single-subject seminars,
e.g., separate the Caribbean from
South Africa
* Devote more time to discus-
sions after workshops
* Hold seminars for children
* Host Black induction classes
for the very young
* The workshops were held too
close together, if possible have
them in separate rooms so people
can hear each other
* Provide creche facilities
*What about weekend residen-
tial conferences as well as all-day
seminars?
* Elect more working-class peo-
ple to chair sessions
* Publicise seminars more
widely
*
Approach seminars from a
"bottoms up" direction, i.e., from
a grass-roots level
* Hold more meetings to give
the PBC a higher profile
Ban smoking
* Hold workshops near coffee
bars
* Have follow-up sessions to
discuss topics in greater detail
Conferences should be held on
a more regional basis. What
about the North-West and the
Midlands?
OVERLORD X
One, two...Now let me get rid of my fumes
Fires build the earthquake moves you
Black little children like to grow and you know
With their parents but it's not so and yo...
Time limits for my people behind bars
Here's the verdict: the government's a retard
State of emergency hold your fire
Violence is not yet a D...D...Desire
ANCTIONS
NOW!
FREE DOM
-26 The Black Parliamentarian
LONDON RHYME SYNDICATE
The mother land, home of the blackman
Taken away, enslaved, governed by a whiteman
Without right, stole control, the Dutch and English fight
Incite, killing weak brothers who couldn't read nor write
A breach of peace, won't teach, banned freedom of speech
Preach apartheid, segregation, when the hell will it cease
Exploiting my brothers through colour, racist bluffer
Botha in a bodybag, word to the mother.
LONDON POSSE
In a South Africa whole heap a shegries a gwan
Dey na wan no black make a trade union
Dem a blow up offices and dem a kill off blackman
We affe get militant uprise and stand strong
So listen lyrics straight from the posse that we all made
COSATU say that what they need is a living wage now!
We have to fight for that, build on the black
So run go record shop and buy this track
The Black Parliamentarian - 27-