BLACK BUSINESS
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM
by Manny Cotter
Manny Cotter has been instrumental in the creation of hundreds of new businesses in London and the devel-
opment of minority entrepreneurs. He is currently the Executive Director of the North London Business De-
velopment Agency in Finsbury Park, North London. Below, he argues that Britain's minority communities
must take advantage of the dramatic and beneficial changes that have taken place in business during the last
ten years.
(Photo by Humphrey Nemar)
The standard of Business Plans and
Presentations particularly where Enter-
prise Agency assistance has been sought,
is at present very high and getting better.
Great attention has been focused in this
direction owing to the criticisms and rea-
sons proffered by the banks in the early
eighties, that they were not able to lend
comfortably to Minorities, particularly
Black people, because their proposals
were not being prepared and presented to
a satisfactory standard. Potential entre-
preneurs from the Black community,
with the assistance of Black-led Enter-
prise Agencies and other supporting pro-
fessionals in the field of business advice,
support and development, are today pre-
senting high quality business plans and
well-researched and thought through
business ideas.
The phenomenal success rate of the
increase in women-owned businesses
must be highlighted. Again and again,
consultants have sung the praises of
women clients who show promise of
continued development of their busi-
nesses despite innumerable difficulties.
Their achievements to date promise a
magnificent future for generations of
Black female entrepreneurs.
Positive results are identifiable
through the increase in bank lending to
Black businesses and also the gradual
change in business orientation towards
more non-traditional activities.
Whereas in the past these centred around
the provision of personal services, e.g.
hairdressing, home catering, motor re-
pairs, bespoke tailoring and dressmaking
etc. Today, through the support of Enter-
prise Agencies and similar organisa-
tions, the new breed of Black businesses
now include those involved in computer
technology, clothing manufacture, light
engineering, printing and the professions
- legal, accountancy, etc. Initiatives
aimed at bringing Black business activi-
ties into the mainstream are being devel-
oped by various bodies, and if success-
ful, will open much larger markets for
goods and services provided by Black-
owned businesses.
One of the keys to business success in
any community is training and access to
information. In the past, the Black com-
munity had little, or no known access to
training and/or information, which re-
sulted in the stagnation and/or failure of
businesses already in existence, due to
market saturation and lost opportunities.
This situation is rapidly changing
through the emergence of the Black-led
Enterprise Agencies as well as other sup-
port services. Many training organisa-
tions are now managed by professional
consultants who have developed their
training to address the needs of Black
business people.
Courses are being designed, and
training sessions tailor-made, taking into
consideration the time factor. This is to
enable Black business owners to attend
when convenient so ensuring continuity
and the benefit of owner-management
during trading time and also to minimise
loss of income during any absence of the
business owner. It would therefore seem
inevitable, that through training, the pro-
vision of expert advice and greater ac-
cess to and dissemination of information,
that belief in the future success of Black
businesses will at least continue to be
nurtured and encouraged to materialise
for future generations.
The Black business community must
commence the process of collaboration
and joint ventures both in terms of trade
and investment. The problem of busi-
ness inhibition and lack of imagination
as well as the inability to identify oppor-
tunities remain. The restrictive limits of
the Minority market within the UK, as
well as the failure to support other Black
businesses through inter-trading, are also
evident and requires much discussion,
exchange of ideas and willingness to de-
velop and consolidate, and by so doing,
improve on current positive trends.
In this respect, a great deal can be
learnt from our American brothers and
sisters in terms of the dynamics of busi-
ness and the determination and dedica-
tion needed to ensure success. Black
businesses in the UK must cease thinking
at only the parochial level. Black busi-
nesses must look beyond the boundaries
of the UK and begin to plan for trading
with Europe, Africa, the Caribbean and
the Middle East as well as the USA.
Markets in the UK are virtually satu-
rated and the opportunities for the future
are therefore the larger markets of the
world. To this end, an even greater de-
gree of co-operation between govern-
ment, private sector and the Enterprise
Agencies working at the grass-roots
of Black business activities in the com-
munity-is necessary to ensure that the
progress of the eighties is firmly consoli-
dated and continued into the next decade.
Learning the skills to set up in business
General awareness of the enterprise
climate and the opportunities avail-
able, have encouraged and enabled
people from the Black community to
consider (a) starting businesses and
(b) developing the ones they have. Al-
ternatively, they have sought out and
pursued new or additional training for
more marketable skills. All this has
led to a more concentrated effort to-
wards self sufficiency, business devel-
opment and economic activities not
only for the morale and growing
wealth of their own communities, but
also for the economy of the country as
a whole. Worthy central Government
initiatives, coupled with equally well
meant local government approaches
to the causes of an almost total absence
of Black business activities, have re-
sulted in a new spirit of individual and
community worth, where previously, risk of going into business after 20 or 30
little existed.
years of settling in the UK.
Whilst racism in employment has
changed very little, the global problem of
massive unemployment has exacerbated
even more acutely, the social conditions
and environment of the inner city areas in
which largely, the Black and Ethnic Mi-
nority communities have always settled.
The additional social concern of the
growing number of single parent fami-
lies/women heads of households, unem-
ployment of black males, privatisation,
redundancies due to relocation, etc., oc-
curred in tandem with the promotion of
the enterprise culture during the '80s.
Therefore, it has been the combination of
all these influences which forced or en-
couraged ever-growing numbers of the
Black community to take the decision/
Captains of Industry in Britain are
slowly but steadily becoming aware of
the fact that Black businesses have much
to contribute to the wealth of the commu-
nity and the country. Many national and
multi-national companies are currently
participating in the Enterprise Agency
Movement some government-led
through sponsorship and secondment of
personnel to support the work of the
Agencies. This recognition of local com-
munities, and their need for outside as-
sistance, though relatively small, has
contributed to some extent towards the
process of a gradual change in the per-
ception of large employers, trading com-
panies, the lending institutions and the
indigenous population.
CARD
EVETIDE & CO. LTD.
BUILDING
Refurbishment - New Build - Maintenance
01-806-6998 CONTRACTORS 01-806-8566
Estb. 1961
TO
LOCAL AUTHORITIES -HOUSING ASSOCIATIONS
AND VARIOUS TYPES OF CLIENTS
We Offer
*Competitive Pricing
*
Guaranted Work
Arrange Finance on Request
* Reliable & Comprehensive Service
*
Property Management Service.
Rear of 85 KYVERDALE ROAD
STAMFORD HILL
LONDON N16 6PP
-30- The Black Parliamentarian
The Black Parliamentarian - 31-