THE 1992
OPPORTUNITY
OR OPPRESSION?
seminating these ideas to a wider audi-
ence or in public - no matter what the
effect on the public is or is likely to be.
For the purpose of the law, racist state-
ments published in papers are considered
to be statements made with the intention
of spreading racist sentiment. Two jour-
nalists have been charged with violations
under the law.
Similarly, the Dutch penal code
penalises racial insult, incitement to ra-
cial hatred and discrimination and vio-
lence on the grounds of race as well as the
publication or dissemination of these
ideas. In addition to being fined or im
(Photo by Humphrey Nemar)
Ansel Wong is currently Special Pro-
jects Officer at the London Borough
of Ealing. Here, he argues that the
social policy implications of 1992
for ethnic minorities living in the
EEC have to be confronted.
The countdown to the removal of
all barriers by 1992 to ensure the
free movement of goods, services,
capital and people within the
twelve member states of the Euro-
pean Community has begun. An
increasing number of people, insti-
tutions and local governments are
becoming aware of the inevitabil-
ity of a Europe without frontiers
and it is not surprising that reac-
tions are very mixed to the pro-
posal.
The Single European Act which
came into force in July 1987 amended the
Treaty of Rome and set 1992 as the date
by which the single market should be
achieved. Lord Cockfield (previously
Vice-President of the European Com-
mission) set out in 1985 300 legislative
measures (reduced to 279) necessary to
achieve a single market. Most of these
measures were concerned with the re-
moval of physical barriers (border con-
trols), fiscal barriers (VAT and excise
duties) and technical barriers (trading
standards).
Even though the 1957 Treaty of
Rome had specified the goal of a "harmo-
nious development of economic activi-
ties", the impetus for this recent effort
was the recognition that the 12 separate
states were losing out to Japan and the
USA. The damaging effect on the econ-
omy of each Member State and the rec-
ognition that an effective economic chal-
lenge to the dominance of Japan and the
USA can only be mounted by a cohesive
trading bloc, is the rationale for the Sin-
gle European market.
by Ansel Wong
The priority then was economic co-
hesion with social progress being seen as
a consequence of the "liberation of the
forces of growth". It should not be sur-
prising then that the social policy impli-
cations of 1992 have not received as
much attention as the economic meas-
much attention as the economic meas-
ures. The social policy implications for
marginal groups are even further away
on the agenda. But before we examine
the implications of 1992 on a significant
marginal group - Ethnic Minorities -
it is perhaps important to be aware of the
social and political context under which
Ethnic Minority communities live in the
EEC.
Member states have statutory instru-
ments which offer protection to Ethnic
Minorities against discrimination.
While these guarantees of non-discrimi-
nation are potentially an important
nation are potentially an important
source of law, in practice they have been
ignored or abused. In Germany, the con-
stitutional provision that prohibits dis-
crimination has been interpreted as a
declaration of intent. In Denmark, per-
sonal freedom and in Luxemburg, non-
discrimination, are guaranteed only to
nationals. In Italy, although the constitu-
tion formally guarantees non-discrimi-
nation, in practice the government itself
discriminates both legislatively and ad-
ministratively.
Few of the EC states have developed
a comprehensive system of civil reme-
dies. In the Netherlands, while there are
laws that provide for compensation in the
case of certain types of discrimination,
these laws cannot form the basis of a pri-
vate law suit: any legal action must be in-
itiated by the public prosecutor. This is
true of the laws prohibiting discrimina-
tion in Belgium as well.
The Luxemburg law against racism
of 1980 does not permit associations
combating racism to bring civil suits. In
Denmark, there are no civil remedies
available to the injured minority; while
in Greece, civil remedies are available to
citizens alone. And in Ireland, there is
only a single statute prohibiting dis-
crimination in dismissals from work that
allows a private right of action. In the
United Kingdom alone there is a system
of laws that offers the minority legal pro-
tection from discrimination both admin-
istratively and by giving the individual a
private right of action.
While civil remedies in most of the
EC states are relatively undeveloped in
respect to discrimination, a few of the
states have enacted special criminal laws
to punish, rather than to compensate for,
acts of discrimination. Denmark and the
Netherlands have developed comprehen-
sive systems of criminal law. Other
states, though offering minorities mini-
mal protection in their criminal codes,
have been less conscientious.
Ireland has no special provisions in
its criminal code to combat racism at all.
The Luxemburg law against racism of
1980 has yet to be applied. A Greek law
punishes incitement to racial violence or
hatred with two years imprisonment.
Belgian law forbids public incitement to
discrimination, hate or violence against a
person or group because of their race,
colour or national or ethnic origin, as
well as racial advertisements or notices,
and punishes those who publicly resolve
to practice race discrimination. The Ger-
man criminal code prohibits incitement
to violence and the stimulation of racial
hatred, but contains no laws prohibiting
acts of discrimination in public places or
in the fields of employment or housing.
The law in Germany, in fact, provides
protection in practice only to the Jewish
population and does not address prob-
lems faced by other minority groups.
The Danish criminal code, in addi-
tion to punishing discrimination in the
field of employment and in access to
public facilities, fills in the gap left by
laws such as the British one which pun-
ishes incitement because of the effect it
may or does have on the public. In Den-
mark, it is a criminal offence to make
threatening, hateful or degrading state-
ments about race, colour, nationality or
ethnic origin with the intention of dis-
What does the post-1992 future hold for Black Europeans?
prisoned, editors and distributors of dis-
criminatory ideas can be disqualified
from further pursuance of their occupa-
tions if they are convicted twice for the
same violation in five years. It is also a
criminal offence in the Netherlands to
take part in or support in any way activi-
ties which discriminate against people on
racial grounds, or to discriminate in the
exercise of a profession or trade.
It is important to note that not only
does the Treaty of Rome and the Single
European Act fail to mention race, but
that the Commission's own publications
on social policy issues speak only of
women, the long-term unemployed and
the disabled. In fact, this colour-blind
approach contrasts sharply with meas-
ures on women's issues:
* Since 1975 discrimination against
women is illegal
* There is a standing Committee of
the European Parliament on Women's
Rights
* There is a Bureau for Questions on
Employment and Equal Treatment
for Women within the Commission
*
The Advisory Committee on Equal
Opportunities for Men and Women
has observer status.
And race and racism?
* Publication of a Committee of En-
quiry findings on the Rise of Fascism
and Racism in Europe, December
1985
*
A declaration by the 3 Community
institutions against racism and xeno-
phobia.
It is not surprising therefore that fears
have already been expressed that the vi-
sion of an integrated Europe will be a
nightmare for the victims of an inte-
grated racism. Professor Chris Mullard
of the University of Amsterdam warns
that "what 1992 represents is a transfor-
mation of nationalism into a white con-
tinentalism, altogether more tight, resil-
ient and with more power". The neces-
sity for a cheap reservoir of labour to
massage the economic cohesion by
which European capital is able to chal-
lenge American and Japanese capital re-
sults in some social cost and political dis-
location.
The emphasis of the Commission's
own social action programme tends to re-
inforce this view of an integrated white
Europe. In looking at education in a
united Europe, the emphasis is on the
preparation for life in a single market
economy and one component of this is
the need to give greater prominence to
language training and the appreciation of
European cultures. What does this really
mean? One can only look to expressed
attitudes to begin to understand how this
social action can be used to further deny
ethnic minorities a place in Europe.
The danger is that greater validity
will be given to European languages thus
undermining the linguistic and cultural
capital of many ethnic minorities whose
mother tongue is not a European lan-
guage. The Department of Education
and Science in its draft statutory order
and circular of 3rd March 1989 entitled:
"Modern Foreign Languages in the Na-
tional Curriculum", advises educational
institutions that EEC languages should
have priority in the National Curriculum.
However, there is one concession to
those pupils who may choose Arabic,
Bengali, Chinese, Gujurati, Hindi, Japa-
nese, Punjabi, Russian, Turkish and
Urdu as their foundation subject lan-
guage but ONLY if the school also offers
a chance of studying a European lan-
guage. Europe's ethnic identity is thus
being explicitly moulded in anticipation
of 1992.
In all its recent publications, the
Commission has been stressing that the
social dimension is a fundamental aspect
-10 The Black Parliamentarian
The Black Parliamentarian - 11-