AGENDA:
Vision that is different.
Encourages the creative
exchange, stimulates emotion,
challenges established thinking,
yet respects the past experience.
Haircare & Beauty (Europe) Ltd.
7 Stroud Green Road, Finsbury Park, London N4 2DQ, England
Telephone: 01-263 9551 Telex: 264754 Fax: 01-281 3708
-36 The Black Parliamentarian
COLOUR BLIND
JUSTICE
This Paper is presented by Peter Herbert, Chairman of the Society of Black Lawyers.*
It is often said by members of the judiciary that justice in Britain is colour blind. What they really
mean is that, in practice, the judges and magistrates fail to recognise their own prejudices.
There is now overwhelming evi-
dence to show that Black people are less
than equal before the law. To understand
why this should be the case, one has to
examine the historical background.
Prior to the 13th century, the experi-
ence of Black people in Britain had been
one of being treated as different but
equal. With the advent of slavery, a new
philosophy had to be found to justify the
practice; racism was therefore formu-
lated and developed for this purpose.
The Elizabethan community of 20,000
Black Londoners was prevented from
working in most trades and professions
and pushed to the margins of society.
Property rights of English slaveowners
were sanctioned by English judges until
the abolition of slavery in 1833. The
same philosophy was used to "civilise" a
heathen world of "black", "brown" and
"yellow" peoples.
The English legal system was used to
justify and administer British colonial-
ism and imposed an alien law and custom
on many different peoples. During the
early part of this century, the native sons
and daughters of Empire could work and
fight when required for the mother coun-
try but were not thought fit to decide their
own destiny.
The legal system has been used fre-
quently to contain and undermine genu-
ine Black protest. The whole plethora of
racist immigration laws through the no-
torious "sus" laws and the present abuse
of the Public Order Act legislation, have
been used to deny fundamental civil
rights to Black people.
Since the first Black barrister quali-
fied in England in 1850, Black lawyers
have faced discrimination and bigotry
from their white colleagues. It is no
small wonder therefore that if white law-
yers fail to respect their Black col-
leagues, it is more than likely that they
discriminate against their Black clients.
Judges are still recruited overwhelm-
ingly from the Bar (notwithstanding the
Green Paper proposals) and are over-
whelmingly white, male and middle-
class. How then do these individuals
suddenly shed all the prejudices present
in society or the Bar itself?
SENTENCING POLICY
One of the reasons for the critical po-
sition of Black people within the Crimi-
nal Justice System is the enthusiastic use
of custody as a solution to crime. As
Black defendants fall at the end of the
scale in respect of this treatment, one can
only achieve a real cure by reforming the
whole system.
Compared to the rest of Europe, we
now have the undistinguished honour of
sentencing more people to custody than
any other country both proportionally
and in total figures. During 1985, some
25,000 custodial sentences were passed
on Black people far more than the
number of Blacks who passed through
higher education. In 1985, 160,000 cus-
todial sentences were passed in England
and Wales compared to 90,000 in West
Germany and France. That is despite the
fact that we do not have a higher crime
rate.
—
On June 30th 1987, 50,270 people
were in custody. 48,510 male and 1,760
female. The four principles of sentenc-
ing are supposedly punishment, deter-
rence, retribution and rehabilitation.
However, since the late 1970s, there has
been an abandonment of the principle of
rehabilitation and a concentration on the
other three. Average sentences for the
same offence are longer now than they
were ten years ago. There is no evidence
to suggest that the increase in the length
of sentences has had any effect whatso-
ever on reducing the crime rate. The one
area which strongly suggests the path to
be followed is in the area of juvenile sen-
tencing. The widespread use of interme-
diate treatment schemes has reduced cus-
todial sentences from nearly 8,000 in
1981 to 4,000 in 1987. The same imagi-
nation and flexibility of response has not
extended any further. There is a strong
case to suggest that people who receive a
non-custodial sentence are less likely to
re-offend within the next two years.
Recently, the Home Secretary stated
that it was not for him, the Government
or the House of Commons to lay down to
the courts how many people they send to
prison..."it is our job to provide the
places". At the cost of £252 per week per
prisoner and £69,000 per new cell built,
this laissez-faire attitude is a costly and
ineffective sanction. Both West Ger-
many and Holland have substantially re-
duced their prison populations in recent
years.
It is clear that we need to see a dra-
matic decrease in the use of custody both
in frequency and length for all defen-
dants. Black defendants would benefit
from the implementation of a more sci-
entific approach to sentencing (as re-
cently suggested by the Lord Chancellor)
but also of a more liberal or flexible atti-
tude by the judiciary. Without such fun-
damental change, it will be of question-
able value achieving full equality of
treatment for Black people within a sys-
tem that is inherently defective.
RACIAL DISPARITY IN
SENTENCING
The extent to which Black people are
processed through the Criminal Justice
System is now well documented. On the
30th June 1987, there were 50,270 peo-
ple in prisons in England and Wales. 14
percent or 7,050 of the prisoners were
from the ethnic minorities. There has
been a steady increase since 1985 when
the Home Office showed the proportion
of Black prisoners to be 12.5 percent.
Alarmingly, this proportion increases to
27 percent in respect of Black female
The Black Parliamentarian - 37-