RELIGIOUS TOLERANCE:
What's the Price for Britain's Muslims
By Keith Vaz, MP (Leicester East)
It is a historical fact that the adjustment made by immigrant communities to their "hosts" is greater than the
ability of the host community to accommodate. And that the right to belong is as important a concept as the
right to be different. This assertion of difference, this protection of culture, has manifested itself indelibly on
the landscape of Britain.
You only have to walk around the
inner areas of our great cities and you
can see this manifestation over the
rooftops. They may not be as grand
as the Central Mosque in Birming-
ham or the Sanatan Mandir in Leices-
ter or the Gudwaras in Southall but
they are there.
To British people used to two
great religions - headed by Rome
and Canterbury these new relig-
ions are at once an object of interest
and a threat. There are three reasons
for this. First, a crucial lack of un-
derstanding that the "new" religions
are in fact old ones with long and
great histories which rival Christian-
ity. Second, the fact that the Chris-
tian religion has less and less mean-
ing in the life of the nation. Third,
there is no understanding of the role
that religion plays in the lives of the
new communities.
I don't often go in for prayers at
the start of the Parliamentary day but
I did so twice in one week not so long
ago. Here in Westminster, a handful
of MPs were praying. The Chaplain
asked for God's blessing on the de-
liberations to come. This is how the
Parliamentary day begins every day.
It reminded me of the meetings that I
have attended all over the country
with British Muslims who begin
their events with a recitation of the
Koran. This occurs every time a
meeting takes place.
The great mistake of the pro-
Rushdie supporters has been their to-
tal failure to grasp the role of Islam in
the lives of Muslims: the central na-
ture of the religion to the tedium of
everyday life. Devotion is described
as fanaticism. Those who have op-
posed the stupidity of Rushdie's de-
cision to write and publish a book
that is steeped in intolerance and re-
ligious abuse, are branded as sup-
porters of the fanatics.
porters of the fanatics. Yet they
don't realise that all those who be
lieve, all those who pray are by their
nature fanatics. How strong is your
belief in your religion if you don't
believe in its fundamental values?
Faith is something to be respected
and revered; not to be used as an op-
portunity to humiliate and to poke
fun at.
We owe, perversely, a debt of
gratitude to Rushdie for the contro-
versy and thoughts that he has pro-
voked. The reaction of the Left, the
Government, the Opposition, the lib-
eral establishment, the police, the
media etc. has been striking. A re-
markable coalition of all classes and
all shades of opinion has combined
to brandish the burners of Rushdie's
books and effigies as fanatics. At the
same time, they barely comment on
the councillors who burn their Poll
Tax notices or the irate residents who
created and burnt an effigy of the
Secretary of State for the Environ-
ment. No questions are asked here
about fanatics and fundamentalists.
21 years earlier, Enoch Powell, in a
different way, was uttering the same
sentiments as Rushdie. Dockers
marched to defend Powell's right to
free speech in the same way 12,000
elites rallied to defend Rushdie.
They were lecturing the new relig-
ions and the new Britons by reassert-
ing what they described as the funda-
mental principle: to be British is to
accept the rule of law. That is not a
particularly British concept. All
democratic societies operate on the
basis of the rule of law.
Yet in exchange for citizenship,
Asians are now being asked to strip
themselves naked of not just their
religion but their culture. Elderly
Asian men and women are regularly
denied naturalisation because they
cannot speak English; even though
for the remainder of their lives, be-
cause of their life-styles, they are ab-
solutely unlikely to have the need to
speak English. Yet a new identity is
to be imposed on them. They must be
sanitized from 1,000 years of history.
Culture must begin at Terminal
Three at Heathrow Airport. Nothing
else matters. It's as if they have cre-
ated a drug that would turn us all into
one colour a true Aryan race for
Thatcher's Fourth Reich. Then once
we are all the same colour with a
common history, then our women
will be liberated.
No more sinks, children and ar-
ranged marriages. Asian women, in
particular Muslim women, are to be
liberated by the liberal establish-
ment. I'm sure I went to a synagogue
recently where they placed the
women in a different part of the room
from the men. There were no dem-
onstrators outside urging the Jewish
religion to liberate its women. Jews
are now part of the establishment so
everyone has a go at Muslims. They
are locked in their social cages wait-
ing to be released by Fay Weldon.
Weldon's new pamphlet, "Sacred
Cows", is the latest defence of
Rushdie and latest attack on the Ko-
ran. Ms Weldon: "The Koran is food
for no-thought". It's a straightfor-
ward anti-Muslim piece which
makes "The Satanic Verses" look
like a comic. An international con-
ference held in Kuwait in 1980 and
sponsored by the International Com-
mission of Jurists recognised that the
equal rights of women is a vital
teaching of the Koran. There was no
question of second-class status. Dur-
ing the recent Pakistani elections,
observers noted the huge personal
vote generated to elect the first
woman leader of an Islamic state.
Muslim women groups established
in Britain are a vital and necessary
part of the way in which the commu-
nity develops. They are as valid as
the leaders of the religion.
To mock the new religions, to
goad them, is to rob a whole genera-
tion of their rights to have roots and
feelings and to store up immense
problems for the future. 21 years
from now we will look back and see
what damage Rushdie has really
done. Powell at least had a motive
for what he did with a clear idea of
the precise perils that lay ahead.
Rushdie wrote a work of fiction that
EQUEST ADVERTISING
&
PROMOTIONS LIMITED.
(U.K's No.1 Black Advertising Agency)
*Head Office:
*
Administration :
SERVICES
15 COLVIN ROAD
EAST HAM, LONDON E6 1JJ
POPLAR LIBRARY,
44 GILLENDER STREET,
POPLAR
LONDON E14 6RN
TEL: 01 552 2730
*PRINTING *ART\DESIGN
*MARKETING \ P.R. *PROMOTIONS
*DESK TOP PUBLISHING
*PHOTOGRAPHY VIDEO
(THE COMPLETE IN-HOUSE SERVICE COMPANY)
THE WAY FORWARD IS WITH EQUEST
has managed to let loose a million
sentiments whose desire to mould
the Black communities go beyond
Powell's wildest dreams.
The new religions must be left to
develop in their own way: aware that
they are not in their countries of ori-
gin; that they are minority religions;
that they are in another place which
has less tolerance and understanding
than they were entitled to expect.
Affirmata
6 TURNPIKE LANE LONDON N8 OPT
TEL: 01-881 4724
AFFIRMATA LTD - the professionals in Equal
Opportunities and Management Training. In
business for over five years and trained over
10,000 people.
We offer training, advice on training,
individual and group consultation; and
assistance with policy development - to equip
people in all kinds of large and small
organisations with the necessary information
and skills to enable them to approach equal
opportunities and the management of change in
a confident way. We do reviews of
organisation policies. We offer personal
counselling to managers and supervisors.
There is a "free 2 hour consultation" without
obligation with one of our experienced staff.
For a brochure or consultation, please write
to or ring Dorothy Kuya
Affirmata Ltd
6 Turnpike Lane
London N8 OPT
Telephone 01 881 4724
-
-14 The Black Parliamentarian
The Black Parliamentarian - 15-