MUSIC
THE PARLIAMENTARY
BLACK CAUCUS:
The Background
ЯАЧ
VOICE
Britain's Best Black Newspaper!
Say it loud
I'm Black
and Proud
In June 1987, the first Black members of Parliament in modern times were elected to the British Par-
liament. Diane Abbott, MP., represents Hackney North and Stoke Newington, Paul Boateng, MP., is
in Brent South, Bernie Grant, MP., in Tottenham and Keith Vaz, MP., in Leicester East. Less than a
year after their triumph, three of those MPs, Abbott, Grant and Vaz, decided to form themselves into
a group The Parliamentary Black Caucus. Boateng hasn't joined the Caucus yet. Below is an out-
line of the reasons why the PBC was set up and the aspirations its members have for it.
The election of the Black MPs has
been hailed as a major step forward in the
participation and representation of the
Black and minority ethnic communities
in Britain. It has been welcomed not only
by the communities themselves, but by
many individuals and institutions con-
cerned with race relations - right across
the political spectrum. For the first time,
Black and minority ethnic communities
are felt to have a voice at the level of na-
tional Government in Britain.
In March 1988, the Parliamentary
Black Caucus was formed by three of the
new Black members of Parliament. In
May 1988, Lord Pitt of Hampstead also
joined the Caucus. Although the existing
Caucus members belong to the Labour
Party, this is not to the exclusion of other
parties.
THE NEED FOR A
PARLIAMENTARY
BLACK CAUCUS
The concept of a Black Caucus at the
level of national Government is not a
new one. In the United States of Amer-
ica, the Congressional Black Caucus has
existed for nineteen years.
Essentially, the Black Caucus pro-
vides a forum in which Black representa-
tives can meet together to discuss issues
of common concern and to decide on
courses of action in relation to those con-
cerns.
The need for such a Caucus in Britain
derives from the fact that Black represen-
tatives are in a minority and in a hostile
environment which has never before had
to confront the issues of race and race re-
lations which the Caucus has a duty and
an obligation to raise.
There is no other forum in which
these issues can be raised. Indeed, there
are positive institutional obstacles to
raising them in the Government and Par-
liamentary system as it now stands.
The Parliamentary Black Caucus is
necessary too as a means of ensuring that
we develop our thinking as Black MPs.
We recognise that to allow ourselves to
be facing in different ways on the major
issues affecting the Black and minority
ethnic communities would be to weaken
our position substantially.
The PBC needs to exist on a formal
and properly constituted basis, rather
than as an informal discussion group.
This is because we believe that the issues
which we have to raise are far too impor-
tant to be left to providence. Our lives as
MPs are very busy and our task as Black
representatives is in addition to the jobs
we each have as constituency MPs. A
structured setting for our concerns is es-
sential to ensure progress now and in the
future.
THE ROLE OF
THE PARLIAMENTARY
BLACK CAUCUS
We envisage that the role of the Par-
liamentary Black Caucus will be essen-
tially to raise issues of race and race rela-
tions in Parliament and through other
channels open to Members of Parlia-
ment, for example, directly with Minis-
ters and Government institutions.
There are many issues which need to
be raised. Examples would be the posi-
tion of Black and minority ethnic com-
munities within the inner cities in rela-
tion to health care, employment, housing
and social security. The areas of immi-
gration policy and anti-discrimination
legislation are also key issues of major
concern. Perhaps the most pressing ques-
tion is that of education and the future
prospects of young people.
There are also important foreign af-
fairs questions upon which we need to
take a stand. For example, the economic
situation facing Black and Third World
countries as a result of the growing debt
burden. Another example is the situation
which will face the Commonwealth
countries when the "Single Europe"
agreement comes into force in 1992.
On all these matters, we shall seek to
be a focal point for the Black and minor-
ity ethnic communities to put their
views. We shall encourage individuals
and organisations to bring their concerns
to us, as indeed they have already begun
to do. The approaches we have had indi-
cate a strong desire for the Caucus to take
on this role.
So, it is in recognition of its national
constituency that the Parliamentary
Black Caucus has been formed. The
Black communities are well established
in Britain and have great strength. But
they have waited a long time for political
representation at national level and have.
The Parliamentary
many demands.
Black Caucus aims to channel the
strength of the communities and to move
towards the meeting of these demands.
The Caucus was fortunate enough to
receive a small grant from Barrow Cad-
bury Fund Limited, an non-charitable
benevolent company. The Grant has
been given for a period of four years at
£16,000 a year. It enables us to employ
an administrator and to cover basic costs.
we hope to obtain additional funding
from other sources in the future and to
hold fundraising events.
-4 The Black Parliamentarian
The Black Parliamentarian
-5-