NICHOLS AGENCY LTD.
(EMPLOYMENT)
NICHOLS' AGENCY was founded in 1982 and has been steadily
expanding since. We can now boast over 2,000 registered temporary
and permanent staff, all of whom have been carefully vetted and
selected by strict interviews and examinations. We take special care in
matching staff to our clients needs and are not in the business of ham-
mering square pegs into round holes.
RECRUITMENT
We can supply a variety of staff including - PAs, word proces-
sor secretaries and operators, shorthand and audio secretar-
ies, desk top publishing operators, accountants, clerks, book-
keepers, as well as computer staff from VDU operators to
systems analysts.
We work in a multitude of fields including media and TV,
legal, medical, banking and insurance, accountancy, compu-
ter, construction, engineering, petro-chemicals, local govern-
ment, etc.
TRAINING
You can rely on our staff to understand your office systems.
Our training section is up to date on all the latest office equip-
ment and we instruct our temporary recruits on Wang, IBM
DW4, Word Star, Word Perfect, Olivetti and Desk Top Pub-
lishing.
TYPING AND FAX SERVICE
When time is of the essence you can rely on us for a fast and
professional service to cater for all your office needs including
Typing from Audio Tapes, Word Processing, Sending & Re-
ceiving Fax's, Office Overload etc.
NICHOLS AGENCY can accommodate your every business
need, offering a variety of services at very competitive rates.
Our friendly staff are only too pleased to answer any questions
you may have.
THE PBC'S
INAUGURAL WEEKEND
The PBC's inaugral weekend kicked
off on Friday 31 st March 1989.
Margaret Porter was there.
"I have waited more than thirty
years for this moment". So said
Lord David Pitt as he joined other
members of the Parliamentary
Black Caucus and the Congres-
sional Black Caucus at a packed
press conference in the House of
Commons to launch the PBC's in-
With these
augural weekend.
words, the veteran campaigner set
the tone of what proved to be an
historic weekend for Britain's
Black community.
Lord Pitt recalled the early days of
struggle in Britain and the many disap-
pointments which had been faced in the
1950s and 1960s. The election of the
first Black MPs in the British Parliament
in 1987 was an achievement he had often
dreamed about, and he expressed his
great delight at being able to be a part of
the first ever Caucus of Black Parliamen-
tarians in the UK.
Rep. Ron Dellums, Chair of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus, warmly wel-
comed the PBC's formation, and de-
clared his intention of ensuring the maxi-
mum possible co-operation between the
sister organisations. Although separated
by the Atlantic, there is a common ances-
try, a common historical experience and
a common responsibility in relation to is-
sues affecting Black people throughout
the world. A reception at London's Hil-
the world. A reception at London's Hil-
ton Hotel provided an opportunity for the
Parliamentary Black Caucus to meet
with the full 30-strong United States
delegation.
From the composition of this impres-
sive delegation alone, it was clear that we
in Britain have a great deal to learn from
our American cousins. Not only were
there 6 Black Congressmen, but repre-
sentatives from the National Organisa-
tion of Black Mayors, the National Black
Caucus of State Legislators, the National
Association of Black County Officials,
and the National Caucus of Local Elected
Officials. There were Black representa-
tives of the judiciary, as well as the Presi-
dent of the CBC's research arm, the Joint
Center for Political Studies. To complete
the party, there was a distinguished dele-
gation representing the Congressional
Black Caucus Foundation which pro-
vides funding support for the CBC.
At a dinner in the Palace of
Westminster later that evening, Keith
Vaz, MP, garlanded members of the US
delegation and Diane Abbott, MP, made
a welcoming address and presented gifts.
In a statement of unity, Bernie Grant,
MP, as Chair of the Caucus, observed
that it was most fitting that the gathering
should be taking place in the British Par-
liament which had once been the home of
colonialism.
The following day was set aside for a
conference held at the Commonwealth
Institute attended by over a thousand
people from all walks of life in Britain's
Black community. The day began with a
Business Brunch and was followed by
four seminars on education, political de-
international affairs. Whilst time was
velopment, economic development and
international affairs. Whilst time was
limited, at a final rousing plenary session
it was concluded that an important start
had been made and that more such semi-
nars needed to be planned for the future.
The final event of the weekend was a
Gala Dinner attended by more than a
thousand people. The Ramsay Lewis
Trio travelled from the States especially
to provide the entertainment. At the end
of the evening, Rep. Ron Dellums be-
stowed upon the Parliamentary Black
Caucus, honorary membership of the
Congressional Black Caucus.
-22 The Black Parliamentarian
-
401a Harrow Road
Maida Hill
London W9 3NF
Tel: 01-968 5855
Fax: 01-968 7195
The Black Parliamentarian - 23-