BE MY CHILD:
ONE WOMAN'S STORY
OF HER STRUGGLE TO ADOPT
In 1987, I decided to apply to become
an adopter. As a Black woman (from a
Black-White marriage), working, sin-
gle and over fifty, I was not sure of my
chances. However, I thought that I
would make a good mother; and fam-
ily and friends supported me.
I was fortunate in having a supportive
and pragmatic social worker. After six
months of detailed casework, I was ac-
cepted by my local adoption panel as an
adopter. I decided I would like a Black
child between 5 and 8 years.
My Borough Social Services after
some time said that they had no children
available within the age range I wanted.
The adoption service was not operating
because of staff shortages. It was even
difficult to get hold of the "Be My Parent
Book". This is a regularly-updated book
carrying profiles of children available for
adoption.
Eventually, I decided to apply out-
side my Borough. The local bureaucrats
then stepped in. I belonged to them, they
said, and could not apply elsewhere for a
child until I was on their books for 12
months. This was in spite of there being
a national standing arrangement that a lo-
cal authority pays if they use an adopter
from another authority or organisation.
Following a formal protest from myself
and intervention from others, I was even-
tually allowed to look for a child else-
where.
I tracked down the "Be My Parent
Book" early in 1988 and found a child I
was interested in "Sophie", aged 7
years. She had a white mother and a fa-
ther born to an inter-racial couple in Af-
rica. The child's history was that she
was taken into care because her mother
was a drug addict. The father was in
prison for selling drugs. The mother was
deemed totally unable and unfit to care
for the child. The father was thought un-
suitable to continue his parental role.
This in spite of him being continually in
touch with Sophie. She visited him in
prison and he wrote to her often. The re-
lationship was mutually affectionate.
-20- The Black Parliamentarian
By Dorothy Kuya
There was no evidence of abuse of the
child. Her grandmother from Africa also
wrote to her.
I was short-listed by her authority but
it took three months for a meeting to hap-
pen. During the interview with her social
worker, the adoption worker and my own
social worker, I was asked very few
questions. I'd expected an interrogative
line of questioning; after all a child's life
would be in my hands. I found that I had
to ask many questions to get information.
I was told that the child thought that she
was white and that it was the job of the
adopter to deal with that issue. I was also
told that when the child was adopted she
would forget her past and start a new life.
It appeared that my living in a 'walk-up
flat' - that is a flat with no lifts was
not viewed with approval as the child had
lived in one with her parents. I did not
hold out much hope. I thought the inter-
view was a disaster and was not surprised
therefore, when I was not accepted. A
Black couple was chosen.
That particular placing failed. I later
discovered that there had been various
attempts to place Sophie with both Black
and white families. They had all failed.
However, three Black single women had
applied. Each of us was rejected because
we were single. In the meanwhile, the fa-
ther had finished his prison sentence and
was objecting to the child being adopted.
He wanted her to be with him. He went to
court and lost his case. Sophie continued
to be up for adoption until the summer of
1989. The last I heard is that she is to be
adopted by a white family.
There were other children I was inter-
ested in. But, because of my age and fail-
ure to marry, I was not considered suit-
able by some local authorities. Most of
the children in the "Be My Parent Book",
were described as needing a mother and
father. There appeared to be a preference
on the part of many adoption depart-
ments and organisations to keep a child
in care until a 'perfect couple' could be
found. This meant, as in the case of
Sophie, waiting in an institution for up to
three years before being placed.
My social worker went on maternity
leave. Because of staff shortages, I had
no social worker for about 6 months. I
then began to contact social workers and
agencies around the country. I came
across a lot of Black children who had
been in care for many years with many
different white foster parents, or in
homes. Most of them were having psy-
chiatric help as they were classed as be-
ing emotionally disturbed. They were
confused about their racial identity and
often described themselves as being
white.
The same local authority who would
not allow me to adopt Sophie also re-
jected me when I applied for an older boy
who was said to be 'emotionally dis-
turbed'. He was with white foster par-
ents while awaiting adoption. My single
state was again the criteria for rejection.
I identified another girl, "Josie" aged
7, born in England of African parentage.
Her history is very complicated. Put sim-
ply however, her mother was in prison
awaiting trial for drug trafficking. Josie
was already in care when that happened.
She had been put up for adoption, the
mother objected. The social worker was
convinced that the mother, who was a
foreign national, would be found guilty
and deported. She had no intention of let-
ting the child, who was a British subject,
go abroad with the mother; although as in
the case of Sophie, there was no history
of abuse or evidence that she would be
neglected.
The social worker had met the
mother for one hour only in prison. The
mother, in the meanwhile, wanted the
child to go to an Aunty. The social
worker made no attempt to contact the
Aunty, and was keen to place the child
with me. However, as the mother was
opposing the adoption, and I believed
that the social worker was being heavy-
handed and unfair in dealing with her, I
refused to go ahead with the adoption.
The last I heard was that the social
worker had been instructed by the
Guardian Ad Litem (the child's repre-
sentative in court) to contact the Aunty.
I was becoming adept at asking
searching questions, particularly in try-
ing to ascertain the reason for the child
being in care. I was also becoming very
concerned at social workers' keenness to
have children adopted away from the
child's family, rather than exploring pos-
sibilities within the family, for example
grandparents, aunts etc.
Some time later, I was telephoned
from another local authority about a little
girl. I told them I was interested. But
they later changed the girl to a boy,
"John". I agreed to meet the social
worker to discuss him. I was told that
they would want the child's Black foster
parent to be present, as they had no Black
fostering and adoption workers. I was
not happy about a foster parent being one
of my assessors, but felt I had no option.
John was a child of a white mother who
was always abandoning him. There was
a white grandmother who was described
as having a casually affectionate attitude
towards him. Amazingly, the father-a
Caribbean - was not mentioned at all.
The birth of the child took place in
circumstances which indicated that the
father might not even know he had a
child. The social worker, who was new
to the child, knew the father's name and
that he and his parents lived near to her
area office. But no attempt had been
made to contact him. I pointed out the
importance of the father being contacted.
There was a possibility that he or his par-
ents might like to have the child and that
this should be explored. I was told that it
was not usual in such circumstances for a
father to be approached. I was also asked
by the social worker how she could do
this. It was a ridiculous question in view
of my not living in her area, and the fact
that the Caribbean social workers in the
area would be more likely to help in iden-
tifying him than me.
A few months following this inter-
view, my "f form" was returned. This
form is the detailed profile prepared by
the social worker and the adopter for use
by interested authorities and agencies. It
was clear that the particular authority no
longer wanted to deal with me.
The most recent case I've been in-
volved in concerns a little girl from the
Midlands called "Jane". Because of
there being no social worker, I had to ne-
gotiate on my own. I arranged for my "f
form" to be sent by my area office to the
contact social worker. I had a number of
long discussions on the phone. There
was to be a team meeting. Three families
were 'bidding' for Jane. I was asked to
send a photo. I was surprised about this
and was assured that everyone did it. It
was worrying to think that my looks
would be assessed as well as my very de-
tailed "fform". A 'phone call a day after
the team meeting told me that I was not
selected.
Among the reasons given was that
the child was very boisterous and that
"you both would be screaming at each
other eventually". Also living in a flat
was viewed as not desirable. There was
no evidence in my "f form" of my being
the screaming type. My flat is pleasantly
situated, with a playground for children
of the child's age range. I'd set aside the
largest room for the child. It is certainly
not a pokey place.
When Jane was advertised in the "Be
My Parent Book", she was said to need a
strong male in her adopting family.
When detailing her history, her social
worker told me that she had been sexu-
ally abused by the two men with whom
her mother had cohabited. The social
worker was not able to tell me why in the
circumstances, a strange male figure was
thought desirable in her adopting family.
I also contacted a national organisa-
tion which told me it had suitable chil-
dren on its list. They had used a leading
Black figure to encourage more Black
adopters. They said there was a shortage.
The first question asked on the 'phone
was my age. I refused to give it, and told
them my name was more important. A
second 'phone call got me through to the
person in charge. We arranged an ap-
pointment. She was sent my "f form".
One of the questions she asked at the in-
terview was: "if you died, do you have
someone to take over the child?". She
meant family or friends. I had never been
asked that one before. How could I ask
my family/friends to agree, in the event
of my death, to take on a child that I had
not even seen? Not even biological par-
ents are expected to make that sort of ar-
rangement. The interview left me dis-
mayed. I heard nothing more about pro-
spective adoptees from her, although she
wrote and said she would be in touch
again. One interesting point from her
was that she had on her list a child from
my Borough of the right age - although
my Borough purported to have no suit-
able children.
Another national adoption agency
forgot to put me on its computer for 12
months. When it did, the worker con-
cerned was suggesting children who
were mentally and physically disabled. I
had made it clear that as a single woman I
would not be able to cope with a child
with a physical or mental disability. I felt
with a physical or mental disability. I felt
very much under pressure to accept such
a child, and that the fitter children were
being kept for the 'ideal couple'. An-
other local authority who had a child of
the age range I was interested in, did not
have a social worker to take on her case.
My experiences relate to various parts of
the country and with authorities of differ-
ent political persuasions.
The two years that I have been regis-
tered as an adopter have been disturbing
in what they reveal of social work prac-
tice as it relates to children in care and
fostering and adoption procedures. I've
heard from a number of people that there
are national procedures. If that is the
case, they are not being practised. I felt
that each social worker I met was moving
the goal posts, and that a great deal of
subjectivity was involved in assessments
of both children up for adoption and
adopters.
There was not enough clarity about
how to make an appropriate match be-
tween a child and potential adopters.
Choices seem to be made on gut reac-
tions, personal prejudices based on a tra-
ditional white middle-class view of the
perfect family-a house with a garden, a
man, a woman and a dog. There are also
widely-held stereotypical attitudes to-
wards older, single women.
I have the impression that not enough
thought is being given to placing a child
for fostering or adoption with other
members of its family. Imprisonment for
selling drugs is used as a reason for put-
ting the accused person's child up for
adoption.
Many Black children in care or fos-
tered by white people for many years
usually have no sense of their own Black
identity and consequently have problems
dealing with racial discrimination when
they meet with it in school and on the
streets.
I have met many Black people want-
ing to adopt and foster who are meeting
with obstructions. Black social workers,
white and Black friends, lawyers and
others confirm my experiences as not be-
ing unusual. Mr Mellor (the Health Min-
ister) would do well to look at the whole
of the adoption and fostering procedures
and guidelines and not just investigate a
particular case. Professor Tizard's re-
search (commissioned by the Govern-
ment) will not carry much credibility if
only her personal experiences with her
Black adopted daughter are used.
The two years for me have been frus-
trating and very demanding emotionally.
My fear is that two years on from being
accepted as an adopter will see my age
increasingly being used to reject me.
And with the present debate on how won-
derful white foster and adoptive parents
are, the opportunities for any Black per-
son to adopt a Black child will lessen.
The Black Parliamentarian -21-