prisoners. Only 5 percent of the general
population in England and Wales belong
to an ethnic minority. Furthermore, 9.5
percent of the prisoners in 1987 were
Afro-Caribbean, who represent only 1-2
percent of the general population. There
have now been many ad hoc studies done
on the extent of discrimination within the
Criminal Justice System. However, it is
perceived by many that after years of re-
search this is still seen as a substitute for
direct action to eradicate racism.
In July 1987, in response to a letter
from the Home Office, the Government
accepted that there was racial discrimi-
nation within the Criminal Justice Sys-
tem. The Lord Chancellor's Office en-
dorsed the fact in subsequent correspon-
dence and confirmed that they were
"committed" to its eradication. How
ever, there have been only minimal steps
taken to make that major policy state-
ment a reality. On the information we
have, it seems that most members of the
judiciary and magistrates regard the ex-
planation as being simply that Black peo-
ple commit more crime. This may be
couched sometimes in liberalistic terms
as due to our deprived economic back-
ground. This explanation fits neatly with
society's stereotypical view of Black
people as dishonest, liars, violent and
people generally to be feared.
The evidence, however, suggests that
this is not the case but that Black people
are disproportionately fed into a system
where racism plays a negative role at
each stage. Comparisons with the Black
populations of Australia, United States,
New Zealand, South Africa and West
Germany, show a parallel pattern to the
United Kingdom.
RESEARCH
A study by the Policy Studies Insti-
tute in 1983 found that Black youths
were four times as likely to be stopped
and searched as their white counterparts.
The number of Afro-Caribbean people
arrested accounted for 17 percent of the
London total but for only 5 percent of the
actual population. A study conducted by
the London Borough of Hackney in
1986, concluded that young Black peo-
ple were more likely to be convicted in
court and twice as likely to be jailed as
whites. Young Black people are also
over-represented amongst those sen-
tenced to 12 months or more youth cus-
tody under Section 53 of the 1933 Chil-
dren Act.
Research in 1984 concluded that the
likelihood of victims reporting crimes to
-38 The Black Parliamentarian
the police was affected by the perceived
ethnic origin of the perpetrator. All the
indications show that there is a deteriora-
tion in the justice available for Black
people. There is consequently a widely-
held belief by Black defendants that un-
like their white counterparts, they are
guilty until proven innocent.
Further research by the South East
London Probation Service found that in
1985, 29 percent of youth custody sen-
tences were passed on Afro-Caribbean
youths compared to their constituting
youths compared to their constituting
only 4.7 percent of the total population.
In particular, Black defendants sen-
tenced to youth custody were less likely
to have been previously offered supervi-
sion or probation, and came from more
stable backgrounds, i.e. they were less
likely to have been in care, and more
likely to be still living at home.
A survey by the West Yorkshire Pro-
bation Service, called "Sentencing, Race
& Social Enquiry Reports", examined all
Social Enquiry Reports prepared from
April to July 1987 for Leeds Crown
Court and Bradford Magistrates' Court.
Of the whites in the survey, 32 percent
received immediate custodial sentences
compared to 45 percent for Asians and 44
percent for Afro-Caribbeans. The report
says: "The trend in sentencing is un-
doubtedly to the disadvantage of the
doubtedly to the disadvantage of the
Black offenders and this cannot be justi-
fied in terms of their offences or personal
circumstances". Its effect is that more
Black people find themselves in prison
than whites who have committed the
same type of offences, and who are likely
to have worse criminal records.
The most comprehensive informa-
tion on the numbers of Black people in
custody stems from the Home Office
publication in 1986, "The Ethnic Origin
of Prisoners". Black defendants were
again found likely to have fewer previ-
ous convictions than their white counter-
parts. For males sentenced to custody
aged over 21, 38 percent of whites were
known to have had 11 or more previous
convictions compared to 22 percent of
Afro-Caribbean and 8 percent of Asians.
Similar variations in custody patterns
were equally marked for the offences of
wounding, burglary, robbery, theft and
wounding, burglary, robbery, theft and
drugs offences.
Another survey commissioned by the
Home Office entitled "The Court Dis-
posal of Young Males" by Monica
posal of Young Males" by Monica
Walker, confirmed these trends when
published in 1988. Based on offenders
aged 14 to 16 and those then sentenced in
the Crown Court, more Black juveniles
were sentenced more harshly than their
white counterparts.
The disparity pervades each and
every aspect of the sentencing process.
The Home Office Statistics for June
1987 show that for adult males, Black
people accounted for 18.5 percent of
those sentenced to over 4 years compared
with 9 percent of those sentenced up to
18 months. Among sentenced young of-
fenders, Black defendants account for 17
percent of youth custody trainees sen-
tenced to 18 months, compared to 9.5
percent for both the shorter sentences
and detention centre option.
The amount of research now com-
pleted is sufficient for the Government
to take effective action to redress the im-
balance.
THE PROBATION SERVICE
The probation service although
ahead of the judiciary in accepting some
awareness of its own racism, is still a
long way from putting its own house in
order. The failure of the probation serv-
ice to even deal fairly with its own Black
officers gives an indication of its inabil-
ity, at present, to deal fairly with Black
clients. Only 1.9 percent of probation of-
ficers are Black, (i.e. 127 out of a total of
6,651) with none at Chief Officer level
and only three at senior probation officer
level.
Only very rarely do Social Enquiry
Reports highlight the racial discrimina-
tion faced by Black defendants in terms
of job, housing etc., and never do they
caution against racism within the Crimi-
nal Justice System. In general terms,
there is a tendency to describe white of-
fenders in pathological terms with be-
haviour stemming from personal weak-
ness. Black offenders, however, were
described in terms of capabilities with
the offending stemming from rational
decisions.
BAIL
The discrimination which pervades
the rest of the system is clearly apparent
in the implementation of the Bail Act
1976. The basic presumption in favour
of bail has been eroded over the years and
in relation to Black defendants, the exis-
tence of a wide discretion has been a
licence to discriminate. The Home Of-
fice Statistical Bulletin 6/89 shows that
male Afro-Caribbean defendants at 9
percent are almost twice as likely to be
remanded in custody awaiting trial;
Asians 8 percent and whites 5 percent.
The position was similar for females.
This is consistent with the fact that 31
percent of all those received on remand
from London courts were Black.
Even more alarming is the fact that a
higher proportion of Black defendants
were subsequently acquitted than white
defendants. These records are for indi-
viduals with similar backgrounds, com-
munity ties and for the same sort of of-
fences and antecedents. Given the pre-
sumption of innocence, this would sug-
gest that Black people were twice as
likely to have been wrongly remanded in
custody.
The Bail Act as it is presently applied
is unquestionably being used to deny lib-
erty to innocent Black people and for
many others who, after conviction, re-
ceive a non-custodial option notwith-
standing the period spent in custody.
JUDICIAL RACISM
This heading is, for most members of
the establishment, a contradiction in
terms. For most white members of the
judiciary and magistracy, racism is some
form of extreme behaviour associated
with the very vivid imageries of Nazi
Germany, of the Soweto and Uiterhage
massacres in South Africa or the extrem-
ism of the National Front. This identifi-
cation with "extreme" racism means that
they themselves fail to understand that
they too can discriminate.
The day to day racist stereotypes
which help to explain the disparities
within the Criminal Justice System
therefore pass them by. These judges
and magistrates are not necessarily "bad"
people but are the otherwise fair, honest,
sometimes Christian people who have
little or no realisation of their true views
of Black people. This failure to under-
stand their own shortcomings is com-
pounded by the education process, media
and the system itself in which they oper-
ate. There is widespread ignorance of
Black history and of our social and eco-
nomic contribution to this country.
These attitudes surface from time to time
into public with the publicity given to
racist remarks but these examples are
just the tip of the iceberg.
When Sir James Miskin Q.C., the Re-
corder of London, referred recently to
West Indians as "nig-nogs" what was the
thinking and attitudes underlying the re-
mark? His explanation served only to re-
inforce the lack of self-awareness: "Both
the victim and the accused were West In-
dians. I did not refer to the accused who
was convicted of murder as a "nig-nog",
that reference to the victim simply
slipped out and was not in any way in-
tended to have any racist significance".
The comments speak for themselves.
Such remarks are not, however, isolated
incidents as sentences have on occasion
been reduced due to allegedly racist re-
marks (an appeal from a sentence of
Judge Finney recently). Judge Potter in
Birmingham commented that an Asian
defendant ought to be able to speak
defendant ought to be able to speak
proper English after so many years work-
-
ing here a problem which the British
in India and Africa failed to take to heart.
Legal applications can now be made
it seems to have a judge stand down if
counsel "has reasonable grounds to be-
lieve a tribunal is biased". The form for
this application is detailed in a letter from
Justice Steyn (the former chair of the Bar
Race Relations Committee) to the Com-
mission for Racial Equality dated 22nd
September 1988. Such legal applications
are obviously a way of combating such
overt racism as Black lawyers have
found in the UK.
In the USA, in The State of Georgia
vs William Anthony Brooks (1988), an
application was made to remove Judge
John Land due to alleged racism dating
back to 1954. This problem of judicial
bias can be particularly acute when one is
applying to challenge the racial composi-
tion of the jury. In February 1989, an ap-
plication was made for Judge Prosser to
stand down in the case of R v Hicks &
others at Cardiff Crown Court. This was
because, inter alia, Judge Prosser had
been known to state that: "Cardiff has a
large Black population - going back
over 150 years, it having been a very
busy coal and steel exporting port: they
are integrated citizens-not a breath of
colour problems has been felt in Car-
diff". The application was dismissed but
the Judge was put on the defensive to the
extent that the Rastafarian client ob-
tained a fair trial.
The Council for Legal Education has
recognised the need to have a training
programme that prepares barristers for a
multi-racial society and the need to
recognise and deal with their own ra-
cism; our judiciary receives no such in-
struction. The Bar Council, from whose
ranks the judiciary come, have for anum-
ber of years recognised the widespread
effect of racial discrimination within its
ranks. The Judges Council and its mem-
bers have not, it seems, felt the need to
put their house in order.
In a recent ruling of the High Court
presided over by Lord Justice Watkins
VC, the Chief Constable of Avon &
Somerset was found to have been correct
in refusing to admit solicitors' clerks to
see defendants in police custody. It was
stated in the judgement that the police
would be entitled to exclude someone if
they "know or believe that the person is
merely a colourable pretence of a clerk".
"There may be circumstances where the
police know that he is criminally orien-
tated if unsullied by detention". The four
'outdoor' clerks in question were Black.
The Lord Chancellor is drawing up a
code of practice for magistrates in their
training. There clearly needs to be a re-
education of the judiciary if they are to
acknowledge the unreality of the 'colour
blind' theory. The reality has been and
continues to be something completely
different for Black people as we suffer
under a system of "Black rules and white
justice".
REFORMS TO
SENTENCING
The Society of Black Lawyers would
propose a number of reforms to include:-
1. The establishment of a sentencing
council to involve all the relevant profes-
sional groups including the judiciary.
2. The statutory abolition of custody
form any minor offences.
3. Systematic ethnic monitoring of
all sentencing decisions on a court by
court basis.
4. Regular training for the judiciary
on the need to use the alternatives to cus-
tody available.
5. The statutory alternative of de-
toxification and community service as a
direct alternative to convicted drug ad-
dicts and alcoholics for sentences of less
than 5 years, where the addiction is the
prime motive for the crime.
6. The availability of community
service orders as a direct alternative for
non-payment of fines. Custody to be im-
posed only if the community service or-
der is then breached.
7. Re-drafting of the Bail Act to en-
shrine the right of bail and to make that
absolute in relation to certain summary
offences.
8. The introduction of the 110 day
time limit as practised in Scotland.
The Black Parliamentarian - 39-