of the internal market "for it is not only a
matter of strengthening economic
growth and stepping up the external
competitiveness of European undertak-
ings, but also of using more efficiently
and more completely all the resources
available and of achieving a fair share-
out of the advantages deriving from the
single market". This "share-out of the
advantages" will, it is argued, result in
substantial improvements in the quality
of life, employment, conditions of work,
access to promotion, housing, urban re-
generation and training.
The benefits that are likely to accrue
for ethnic minorities are not assured. It is
accepted that the economic measures
that will follow from a single market will
not only affect the spatial allocation of
economic activity but also transform so-
cial life. But for ethnic minorities, this
transformation can be for the worse. Liv-
ing conditions of ethnic minorities will
be affected by the economic restructur-
ing being proposed and an analysis of the
social implications will necessitate iden-
tification of the range of discontinuities
and shifts that are dominant in the mainly
urban environment where most of us
live.
A delineation of the living conditions
in 1992 that are likely to impinge most on
the lives of Europe's ethnic minority
communities would include the effect of
family and household functions, shifts in
male/female roles, the changing nature
of the labour market, levels of long-term
unemployment, the growth of single par-
enthood, rigidities in housing provision,
relations between generations and
among racial communities, policing and
notions of fear and safety.
It is being argued that all of these fac-
tors together with the consolidation of ra-
cism will act as barriers to the majority of
Europe's black citizens benefiting from
1992. Occupational, industrial, social
and spatial mobility will indeed result for
significant numbers of individuals
within the 12 member states but others
-and I am arguing that this includes the
vast majority of ethnic minorities - will
be confronted by additional constraints,
thus making them economically, socially
and spatially trapped in the inner cities of
their own countries. This is further com-
pounded by the fixed physical infrastruc-
ture of most of our cities resulting in less
choice over access to quality and location
of housing accommodation.
The economic strategy does include
proposals for dealing with different lev-
els of prosperity between regions. What
is not specified is the recognition for
example, in the remodelling of the Com-
munity's Structural Funds of the de-
bilitating effects of multiple urban depri-
vation and racism existing side by side
with pockets of economic and industrial
-12 The Black Parliamentarian
prosperity within one region or urban
centre.
The net effect of all this will be less
opportunities for ethnic minority fami-
lies to participate freely in the free move-
ment guaranteed by 1992. This social
and spatial concentration of ethnic mi-
nority groups in the decaying urban areas
is part of a more permanent process of
marginalisation by which interrelated
economic, social and political processes
combine to entrench and trap ethnic mi-
norities and the poor into geographical
and economic spaces that are worse off
than their affluent and mainly white
neighbours.
This scenario will be the landscape
for increasing problems of social
polarisation and exacerbation of racial
tensions and uprisings. With this will
come a strengthening of the stereotypical
and racist notions of ethnic minorities.
Additionally, the removal of internal
controls will result in the harmonisation
of political asylum and refugee policies
by 1992. Thus a refusal to admit a
would-be refugee by one country will
count as a refusal by all 12 members. Al-
ready there is evidence of a growing
toughness among some of the member
states to increase the chances for denying
entry to individuals. In 1987 Britain
passed the Immigration (Carriers Liabil-
ity) Act which stipulated a £1,000 fine
for any airline who carries a passenger
without proper documentation.
There is also a tendency for ministers
to link asylum-seekers and refugees with
drug trafficking, terrorism and illegal
acts (Trevi Group of EC Ministers of Jus-
tice and the Interior, Confidential Report
to MPs by Douglas Hurd, Home Secre-
tary). It will be easy for member states to
impose greater and more stringent inter-
nal controls with immigration checks
conducted at the workplace and before
the receipt of benefits and with greater
police surveillance becoming more com-
monplace. Harassment of black people
Ethnic minorities in these industries
will face greater risks of redundancies
that will inevitably result from industrial
restructuring. To offset this, it is impera-
tive that an integrated, European-wide
programme of training, retraining, job
creation, investment and economic de-
velopment be planned before 1992.
The Cecchini Report: "The European
Challenge: 1992", in looking at the im-
plications for employment, anticipates
an increase of at least 1.8 million jobs in
the Community. The relaxing of the ma-
jor economic constraints — inflation,
unemployment, public and trade deficits
can result in further growth: "an in-
crease in GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
of almost 6.5% and jobs creation of the
order of 4 million".
Unfortunately, there is little evidence
to show that ethnic minorities, trapped in
the urban centres, will benefit from these
4 million jobs. Therefore, the social con-
sequences of under and unemployment
will remain entrenched and there will be
little effect to the growing marginalisa-
tion referred to above. In addition, some
concerns must be expressed about other
social implications for which there is in-
sufficient information:
* The need to safeguard the rights of
undocumented workers?
* Will the improvement of the levels
of employment protection and work-
ing conditions benefit Black workers
in sweatshop?
conditions or lead to unemployment
* Will equality considerations be in-
corporated in the new European stan-
dards in contract procedures for
works, supplies and services?
* What will be the status of qualifica-
tions gained "overseas" within the mu-
tual recognition of professional quali-
fications?
* How would welfare benefits, pen-
will inevitably increase, further height- sion rights, leave entitlement etc be
ening polarisation, marginalisation and
unrest.
The South-Eastern part of Great Brit-
ain stands to benefit most from the single
market as the opening of the Channel
Tunnel will boost economic develop-
ment in the area. The effects on those in-
dustries - construction, clothing, tele-
communications and food and drink
which employ most Black people need to
be assessed. In Europe as a whole, the
motor and components industries are
likely to face widespread mergers, plant
closures, joint ventures or take-overs.
By 1990, predictions are that there will
be a world-wide excess of nine million
be a world-wide excess of nine million
units which represent over 20% more
cars and trucks than is predicted on the
demand side.
transferred?
On balance, it is safe to say that the
social implications of 1992 will result in
the creation of what is being referred .to
as "the new poor" or "underclass". To
this group is ascribed the characteristics
of ethnicity and criminality. There is lit-
tle opportunity to escape these labels de-
spite freedom to move from one region
or nation to another. For ethnic minori-
ties, 1992 is approached with trepidation
and fear and therefore there is a clear re-
sponsibility on us all to face up to these
implications and strive, as part of a
united European network, to develop not
only a general awareness of the issues
but a platform for structural and institu-
tional change.
WOW!
NEW & IMPROVED
DARK & LOVELY
NO-LYE RELAXERS
Now the best is even better.
When you experience new,
improved Dark & Lovely and
Dark & Lovely Plus, you'll see and
feel the difference right away.
Long lasting Dark & Lovely relaxers
will give you soft, silky, healthy
looking hair with more body and
manageability for easy styling
versatility.
Dark & Lovely relaxers also give
you added protection against
over-processing and damage with
Pre-Care Pre-Relaxer Treatment,
Color Signal Shampoo and Color
Mixer Activator.
So go with the number one
relaxer, Dark & Lovely.
New and improved Dark & Lovely.
Wow!
Now more than ever,
Ahhh, the pleasure of
DARK
LOVELY
Warning: Follow directions carefully to avoid skin and
scalp irritation, hair breakage and eye injury.
NEW & IMPROVED
SOFTER SAKIR HAIR
LONG LASTING RESULTS
DARK
LOVELY
NO-LYE
CONDITIONING
RELAXER SYSTEM
FOR ALL HAIR
TEXTURES
DARK
LOVELY
Plus
NO-LYE
CONDITIONING
RELAXER SYSTEM
FOR DIFFICULT
TO RELAX HAIR
NEW & IMPROVED
FOR
SOFTER. SILKIER HAIR
LONG LASTING RESULTS
Net Contents: One Comp. Application Or Two Retouches.
carson
© 1989 CARSON PRODUCTS COMPANY
U.K and European Agents: Coral Associates, 9 Viking Drive,
Didcot, Oxon., OX11 9RD.
Telephone: 0235 510839. Fax: 0235 510384
The Black Parliamentarian - 13-