BRITISH BLACK FILM FOUNDATION
THE BRITISH BLACK FILM FOUNDATION SPECIALISES IN:
Film Production
Theatre Production
Television Production
We are seeking U.S. partners in joint ventures and exchange programmes where
Film, TV and theatre productions can transfer between the U.S. and U.K.
We also seek investment funds to develop existing projects through out the black
community in Europe.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT.
IN LONDON ENGLAND ON
(011 441) 802 8103
LAMY & CO
Licensed Conveyancers
TON
THINKING OF BUYING/SELLING YOUR HOUSE/FLAT?
WHY NOT INSTRUCT US TO CARRY OUT THE LEGAL SIDE FOR YOU
AFTER ALL CONVEYANCING IS OUR SPECIALITY.
LICENSED CONVEYANCERS came into being under 'Part 11 of the
Administration of Justices Act 1985', under the
auspices of the Lord Chancellors Department.
-
WHY USE A LICENSED CONVEYANCER?
(a) IN VIEW OF OUR NEW STATUS WE HAVE TO WORK FAST AND
EFFICIENTLY
(b) WE SPECIALISE SOLELY IN CONVEYANCING HENCE MORE ACCESSIBILITY
(c) WE CHARGE A STANDARD FEE WE OFFER HEALTHY COMPETITION
YOU NOW HAVE A CHOICE
WHY NOT GIVE US A RING FOR A QUOTE
-34 The Black Parliamentarian
(01) 627 2625
Fax (01) 720 7940
583 Wandsworth Road, London SW8 3JD
Gladys Lamy A.I.M.B. "Soc.LC"
LOOSENING
LIVERPOOL'S SHACKLES
Lord Tony Gifford heads his own chambers in
London's Covent Garden. He specialises in
civil rights cases and was the chair of the
Broadwater Farm Inquiry. Here, he sum-
marises the contents of his report on the find-
ings of the inquiry into racism in Liverpool.
The Liverpool 8 Inquiry was the result of
two factors coming together. First, the
Law Centre and other Black community
organisations wanted it. They were fac-
ing a sharpening of police oppression, es-
pecially through the tactic of charging
community leaders with vague but heavy
'crimes' such as 'violent disorder'.
While policing was their immediate con-
cern, historic grievances about racism
throughout the city in housing, jobs,
and education especially-continued to
be ignored.
So Black organisations supported the
Inquiry, and the key participation in the
Inquiry team of Wally Brown, a leader of
the Black community in the early 1980s,
ensured that the report would genuinely
represent Black people's experiences.
However, a report which no-one in
authority would heed would serve little
purpose. The second crucial factor was
the readiness of some elements in the
Liverpool City Council to recognise that
the Council itself had to stop being a ma-
jor seat of institutional racism, and start
to be an agent for obtaining concrete
benefits for Black people. So, the Coun-
cil was prepared to finance the Inquiry,
and there are signs that the Council will
act on its recommendations.
The report includes a history of ra-
cism and resistance in Liverpool over
two centuries. Black people have been
settling in the city since slavery days, and
the patterns of racism have hardly
changed. James Watkins, an American
ex-slave, wrote in 1850 of the "leprosy of
racial hatred" which he found in Britain.
Charles Dickens in 1861 described how
Blacks in Liverpool were "liable to
slights in the neighbouring streets". Af-
rican seamen, who were considered
"more amenable to discipline", were
paid a lower wage than their white
equivalents. And in 1919, white rioters,
in numbers up to 10,000, attacked Black
people in the streets and lodging-houses
of the city.
Yet there was continuing resistance,
and achievements by Liverpool Black
people which are too little known. The
Parliamentary Black Caucus should sa-
lute the memory of John Archer, who in
1913 in Battersea became Britain's first
Black mayor, and went on to be the first
President of the African Progress Union
and election agent for Shapurji Saklat-
vala, Britain's first Black MP (for
Labour in 1922-23 and for the Commu-
nist Party in 1924-29). Another achiever
was George Christian, who founded a
business empire in West Africa from his
Liverpool head office in the early years
of this century.
Coming up to date, the report docu-
ments the facts of racism today. That
while Liverpool has a Black population
of at least 6%, only 1.6% of Council em-
ployees are Black. That in a head count
of 1000 counter staff in the City Centre
stores, only 15 Black faces were seen.
That in school, Black children face daily
racial abuse with little or no support from
teachers. That in housing, Black families
are driven out of white areas and pushed
back into Liverpool 8, whether they want
it or not. That in jobs, overt discrimina-
tion has been connived at by the Trade
Union movement through their right to
nominate their members to fill job va-
cancies. That in sport, Black footballers
and other sportspeople face abuse and at-
tack from the touchline.
All this and more led the Inquiry to
the conclusion that racism in Liverpool is
"uniquely horrific". Nowhere else is
there such open abuse, such a devastating
lack of mobility.
On the policing side, the report con-
firmed that many Black people had been
falsely charged with "violent disorder";
the efforts of London lawyers, Black and
white, had secured acquittals in every
case. And there were even more disturb-
ing findings. Behind a facade of "com-
munity policing", there is a hard-line pol-
icy, involving constant patrols by squads
in protected vehicles, and an apparent ne-
glect of the hard drug traffic which is
threatening to send Liverpool 8 into an
even worse decline.
The evidence of David Scott, a for-
mer community policeman, married to a
Liverpool Black woman, confirmed
what many on the street were saying: that
racism in the police is rife at all levels;
that false evidence is given by police of-
ficers in court; and that hard information
about drug traffickers has been ignored.
He said:
"The Force policy in general was
that anything was better than a public or-
der confrontation in Liverpool 8, and
therefore hard drugs would be allowed
in, the communitywould be left to 'dope
itself up"".
Because of the seriousness of this
evidence, and the non-co-operation of
the Merseyside Police in the Inquiry, we
have called on the Home Secretary to in-
stitute an official Inquiry into policing in
Toxteth. This must be supported. So
must David Scott and his wife, who on
the very night before the report's publi-
cation, were arrested and charged with
offences allegedly committed last year.
They are strongly protesting their inno-
cence.
The Inquiry's report made a series of
detailed recommendations, to the Coun-
cil, the private sector employers, the
Government, the EEC, the Police
Authority, the Chief Constable, etc. We
have asked to stay in being as an Inquiry
team for a further two years, to monitor
the recommendations which we have
made.
Some first steps have been taken; for
example, the Council has set up a Posi-
tive Action Training Scheme to qualify
600 Black youth for Council jobs, ad-
ministrative and technical. But far more
pressure is needed at a national level, to
remedy the terrible injustices which ra-
cism has caused.
The report's title, Loosen the Shack-
les, was deliberately chosen. The shack-
les of historic oppression still tie down
the descendants of Liverpool's slaves
and seamen. The recommendations of a
report cannot break those shackles -
only the actions of the people themselves
can do that. By exposing and shaming
the authorities responsible for Liver-
pool's racism, the impact of a report can
loosen the shackles, create more space
for oppressed people to claim their right-
ful place. It is a weapon in the struggle
which continues.
Loosen the Shackles, the First Re-
port of the Liverpool 8 Inquiry, is pub-
lished by Karia Press, 41 Rheola Close,
London N17 9TR, price £8.75 including
p& p.
The Black Parliamentarian - 35 -