THE LABOUR PARTY AND
BLACK SECTIONS
by Narendra Makanji
WOOLWICH&ELTHAM
LABOUR PARTY
BLACK
SECTION
BLACK
the cudgel. The old political leadership
is being eclipsed by the young militants
who, increasingly, are looking to main
party politics.
Under the Conservative government
over the last ten years, the conditions for
Black people have worsened dramati-
cally. The major features have been:
* Record levels of unemployment
for Black people especially the young
* More Black people are home-
less or living in overcrowded condi-
tions
* Savage attacks on civil liberties
and harsh sentencing by the courts
* Racist immigration laws have
split Black families
* Refugees have had the door
slammed in their face
Anti-racist education has been
**
rubbished
* The racist regime of South Af-
rica has received huge political and
economic support
* The poll-tax will have a devas-
tating effect on Black people.
Yet the Labour Party and Trades Un-
ion movement have failed to come to
grips with the changing face of the work-
ing class. Women and Black people have
a growing importance in the economy,
especially in the service sector and
among low-paid and part-time workers.
The trades unions do not know how to
handle this beyond attempting to buy-off
militancy with cosmetic concessions.
Labour leaders have continuously ig-
nored demands for comprehensive anti-
racist policies. The LPBS has been
founded on the belief that: "Our votes
cannot be taken for granted if we are po-
litically organised within the Labour
Party".
The main strength of the LPBS has
been the widespread unity it has been.
able to build, described in the "The Black
Agenda" thus: "We recognise the differ-
ences within our communities, but
choose to utilise our common experi-
ences as a strength towards anti-racism.
Some people choose to exploit the differ-
ences, sadly this includes some people
within our own communities. But there
has been a strong and proud tradition of
Afro-Asian unity going back to the early
1900s when Shapurji Saklatwala was
supported by John Archer to be elected as
the Member of Parliament for Battersea
in 1922. Black Section unites, within the
Labour Party, people of African and
Asian descent, who have a shared experi-
ence of racism in this country".
Black Section Annual Conference, 1989
Narendra Makanji is the National Chair
of the Labour Party Black Section. He's
also a councillor in Haringey, North
London.
The Labour Party has accepted the
principle of self-determination and di-
rect representation for Black mem-
bers of the Party. Over the last twelve
months, a high level group of the Par-
ty's powerful National Executive
Committee (NEC) has been in discus-
sion with the unofficial organisation of
Black members called Labour Party
Black Section, (LPBS), and other in-
terested groups to hammer out a pro-
posal to be discussed at the Party's
annual conference in October.
The draft proposal unveiled at the
end of July says: "The objective would
be to create an organisation affiliated to
the Party, be Black-led, provide for self-
representation of African, Caribbean and
Asian members at all levels of the Party,
and which has the full backing and sup- people world-wide. This vibrancy has
port of the NEC and the Party.
not been reflected in the politics and poli-
cies of the Labour Party and on the na-
tional political scene. The Black Section
has sought to take Black politics into the
mainstream politics intact - without
compromise on the basic principles of
Black rights, justice and power.
-
For the last six years, the Black Sec-
tion has campaigned vigorously for an
unfettered voice for Black people in the
Labour Party a party which has regu-
a party which has regu-
larly received over 80 percent of the
votes cast by Black voters. Since the es-
tablishment of the grassroots organisa-
tion in 1983, the Black Section has cre-
ated the conditions within which:
* Four Black members of Parlia-
ment were elected in 1987 and went on
to establish the Parliamentary Black
Caucus (PBC)
* Nearly 300 Black councillors
have been elected on municipal
authorities and a national organisa-
tion called Black Section Councillors
has been formed
* "The Black Agenda", an action
and discussion document of the mini-
mum set of anti-racist demands was
published.
These initiatives emerge out of the
vibrant politics of the struggles of Black
There is a suspicion amongst Black
people that anti-racism is viewed by
white liberals as an unpopular policy
which, in the face of Thatcherism and re-
visionism, must be dumped. That is why
Labour experienced a worrying decline
in support at the last general election
from Black voters. Labour can only stop
losing its support by acting positively on
race. The Black Section can educate and
inform white politics, particularly on the
Left.
Over six years, the Black Section has
asserted itself, destroying the cosy belief
of some power-brokers that Black people
could be kept as passive voting fodder.
The issues facing the Black community
such as immigration and police harass-
ment have been ignored and sidelined by
the powers and the LPBS has taken up
HACKNEY AFRICAN ORGANISATION
(Registered Charity No. 288997)
AND
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
(Registered No. 1965450 England)
HACKNEY AFRICAN ORGANISATION and AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES LTD are
community-based initiatives with a primary commitment to meeting the needs of Africans and
other ethnic minorities in and beyond Hackney. Between them these two Organisations provide
a comprehensive range of services, almost invariably free of charge to clients. Such service pro-
vision is made possible largely through the assistance and sponsorship offered by the London
Borough of Hackney Council, the Department of the Environment, The Training Commission, the
Inner London Education Authority, the Trust for London, Greater London Arts, etc. Assistance
also comes by way of subscriptions and donations from members and wellwishers.
Project activities organised and undertaken by HAO and ADA include:
*LEGAL
*HOUSING
Advice and representation
Referrals, Advice, Rent Assessment
*ELDERLY & FAMILY CASE WORK including Home Help and Hospital Visits
*CHILDCARE Advice and Support
*ARTS & RECREATION including music, theatre and art classes
*SUPPLEMENTARY EDUCATION SCHEME from Saturday classes for juniors
to one-to-one tuition for 'O' and 'A' Level students
*AFRICAN WOMEN PRISONERS VISIT SCHEME
*CANTEEN SERVICES incorporating transcultural restaurant and
training facilities.
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES LTD also has a significant presence in
the Employment Training field, through which individual trainees are encouraged
to acquire skills commensurate to the growing demands of the labour market.
HACKNEY AFRICAN ORGANISATION & AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT AGEN-
CIES LTD OPERATE EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES POLICIES
For further information telephone: (01) 249-5252/241-2720
AFRICA HOUSE, 4-6 DALSTON LANE, LONDON E8 3DE
AFRICA HOUSE ANNEXE, 18-21 ASHWIN STREET, LONDON E8 3DL
-8 The Black Parliamentarian
-
The Black Parliamentarian
-9-