SPORTING TIES
WITH APARTHEID
by Sam Ramsamy
Sam Ramsamy of the South Afri-
can Non-Racial Olympic Commit-
tee (SAN-ROC) says the recent re-
cruitment of British rugby players
and cricketers to play in South Af-
rica has once again highlighted
British sports collaboration with
apartheid.
Groups and individuals campaigning
against apartheid have repeatedly stated
that any sports exchange with South Af-
rica only benefits the privileged white
community there. It helps fortify the re-
solve of the apartheid regime to perpetu-
ate white rule.
Many British sports administrators
merely mouth platitudes against apart-
heid while covertly providing sanctuary
for South African sport.
The white South African Cricket Un-
ion (SACU) were able to recruit players
right under the noses of English cricket
officials. Rumours were circulating
from the beginning of the year that South
Africa was about to assemble a "rebel"
English team to play in that country. The
English Test and County Cricket Board
made no attempt to verify these rumours.
Instead, South African officials were
welcomed as special guests to their meet-
ings and cricket matches. No objections
were made when several officials and
past cricketers were invited in March to
commemorate 100 years of racism in
South African cricket. In fact, the
groundwork for the "rebel" tour was es-
tablished then.
When, eventually, the "rebel" cricket
team to tour South Africa was an-
nounced, the outrage was drowned by all
types of pretexts justifying the tour. The
cricketers said that they were going to
earn a living as professionals, and as free
individuals they should be allowed this
liberty. Their selfish motives allowed
them to by-pass the fact that 80 percent of
South Africans do not enjoy this free-
dom; that the oppressed in South Africa
were being, reluctantly, forced to con
No S.A. tour for De Freitas
tribute, by way of taxes, to pay the agents
of the oppressor.There was talk that they
were going to help Black cricket. What a
blatant lie! Black South Africans made
their objections very clear.
They were not wanted in South Af-
rica. The "rebel" cricketers were merely
acting as agents for apartheid South Af-
rica to break the international sports boy-
cott. They were employed as mercenar-
ies to boost the waning morale of South
Africa's white electorate. Of course, as
mercenaries, they were being paid ex-
tremely well. To such an extent that sev-
eral cricketers found the offer, on purely
monetary terms, difficult to refuse. They
were being offered fees for just three
months work which they would not be
able to earn here for ten years. The visits
by the foreign cricketers and other offi-
cials who gravitate towards South Africa
are only made possible by the generosity
of various sponsors. This is only a cover
for a much more complex operation be-
tween the white South African Cricket
Union (SACU) and its government.
Several years ago, SACU urged its
government to consider providing spe-
cial tax dispensation for sponsors so that
large sums of money were easily avail-
able to attract international sports stars to
South Africa. The government now pro-
vides tax rebates worth 90 percent of
sponsorship outlay. In other words,
sponsors only deliver 10 percent of the
money needed for any boycott-breaking
venture. The other 90 percent is pro-
vided by the government. On paper gov-
ernment involvement is conveniently
concealed by allowing the sponsor to
take full credit.
In August, a delegation representing
a wide range of South African Black
opinion visited England to speak with the
"rebel" cricketers. After more than ten
days of negotiation, only two, Gatting
and Emburey, decided to meet with the
delegation. They listened but then stated
that they are committed to their contracts
as it was legally binding. But, how did
the two Black players, Butcher and
DeFreitas, who originally signed, con-
tract themselves out of the tour?
Here again Gatting, the tour captain,
was allowed to go unchallenged when he
publicly stated that the two Black players
were forced to withdraw because of
death threats. DeFreitas admitted that
his involvement in the tour had upset
many people and "obviously had its ef-
fects on me and my family". Butcher
also read out a statement on television
saying: "As a Christian, I believe that all
men are the same before God. When I
agreed to tour I did not realise how
strongly my fellow sportsmen would
feel. I made a mistake and want to put it
right".
The complicity of British rugby offi-
cials in helping to recruit players to com-
memorate another racist event - 100
years of racist rugby in South Africa - is
even more outrageous.
Anti-apartheid activists left no stone
unturned in making their feelings known.
There was concern throughout the
United Kingdom that a visit by British
rugby players would seriously hinder the
acceleration of the downfall of apartheid.
Many top players then announced that
they would not be going to South Africa.
The tour was on the verge of collapse.
Then, two officials of the white South
African Rugby Board (SARB) landed in
Britain with pocketfuls of money. Sud-
denly, we heard the arrival in South Af-
rica of several players.
The official position was that all ne-
gotiations to invite players had to be con-
ducted through the relevant authorities in
the United Kingdom, i.e. through the
rugby unions of England, Scotland,
Wales and Ireland. But the rugby offi-
cials refused to reveal the names of those
invited.
It was earlier announced that officials
would not go to South Africa for the
commemoration. Even while players
were being furtively recruited on a mer-
cenary basis for what was supposed to be
a lily-white amateur sport, several offi-
cials seemed seriously concerned. Clive
GREETING
Rowlands and David East of the Welsh
Rugby Union, both of whom had turned
down invitations to go to South Africa,
were publicly critical of their colleagues
who had accepted invitations. A few
days later, Rowlands turns up in South
Africa. We wonder what made him
change his mind?
British sport generally and the Prime
Minister in particular, were conspicuous
by their silence. In France and Australia,
there was governmental outcry at South
African machinations. In Australia, the
Prime Minister and Foreign Minister
were actively involved in dissuading
many players from accepting invitations
to play in South Africa. The President of
the Australian Olympic Association,
Kevan Gosper, publicly condemned the
tour and warned of international reper-
cussions if Australians were involved in
giving apartheid respectability.
In this country, many parliamentari-
ans condemned the tour. There were nu-
merous requests for the Prime Minister
to intervene. Even the secretary of the
English Rugby Union said that they
would consider favourably a request
from the Prime Minister. But this was
greeted with absolute silence.
The chairman of the British Olympic
Association, instead of making attempts
to intervene to abort the tour, wanted to
know why there should be opposition to
sportspeople going to South Africa when
there were no protests at others taking on
similar ventures.
Finally, a half-hearted attempt by the
Sports Minister was at last made to Eng-
lish Rugby Union not to pass on invita-
tions to its rugby players. However, this
feeble attempt was completely nullified
when he concluded the appeal by saying:
"It is for individual governing bodies to
decide whether or not to accept Govern-
ment advice, but I very much hope you
will give serious consideration to the po-
sition outlined in this letter".
No wonder the major part of the invi-
tation team which has just concluded its
visit to South Africa came from the
United Kingdom.
Noir Greeting Cards congratulates and wishes the Parliamentary Black Caucus and
the Caucus Magazine continued success in all its endeavours.
Nior is also pleased to announce to all readers of the Caucus
Magazine, especially Businesses, Organisations, High Commissions and Embassies,
etc., that we offer a wide range of Multi-Cultural
Christmas Cards which can be personalised freely, if the order
exceeds 250 Cards. For small orders, there is a small charge.
NOIRM
M CARDS
GREETING
Contact us direct on 01-733 3144
Nior Greeting Cards Ltd, Unit 9,
Angela Davis Industrial Est.,
Somerleyton Road,
London SW9 8TZ
Noir's full colour CATALOGUE and relevant information is
■ available on request - send A4 size SAE with 34p stamp (UK only)
Our Birthday and other Occasion Cards are fully illustrated
in this CATALOGUE.
-32 The Black Parliamentarian
-
The Black Parliamentarian - 33-