The Labour Party W
Needs Black Sections
Recent uprisings in Handsworth, Brixton
and Tottenham, the evidence of racial
disadvantage, and the activities of Black
community groups, all show that the Black
community is over-represented in every
category of social and economic dis-
advantage. No significant consensus
exists, however, on the root causes of
this national scandal or on how it can
be radically changed. This dangerous
uncertainty not only bedevils the nation
but threatens to dramatically erode support
for the Labour Party in the Black community.
As far as Labour is concerned, part of
the solution must lie in encouraging far
greater involvement of Black people in the
affairs of the Labour Party. Sadly though,
the old methods have failed. Years of
indifference, neglect and racism have
created a situation where potential Black
members of the Party ask themselves: "Why
get involved in an organisation which,
despite its rhetoric around election time,
suggests by its every public act and image
that Black people play no part in it?"
Not surprisingly, many Black people
conclude there is no point and throw away
the application form. Yet Black people
are well aware that Labour was created
to fight for the rights of the disadvant-
And
aged, the poor and the powerless.
given that we fall into all these categ-
ories, the majority of us continue to
give it our support. But we do so despite
our concern that the Party ia as sus-
ceptible to racism as all other insti-
tutions in Britain today.
It is this position we wish to change
through Black self-organisation.
No one
would deny us this right in the communities
where we live. Now we demand the same
right to organise in the Party which enjoys
our overwhelming support.
Black activists involved in the struggle
for Black Sections take the view that, as
with women and their struggle against
sexism in the Party, Black members of the
Party, where they so desire, ought to be
able to establish constitutionally-recog-
nised groups.
Those that already exist
have ensured that frank and full discussion
of issues that affect Black people take
place and proper programmes of action are
devised. It is no good arguing this
will divide the working class. Racism
and imperialism have historically divided
Black Sections are a political means
of healing the divide because they enable
us to speak on our own behalf. We are
not asking for special treatment simply
parity with every other section of the
Party.
us.
Black Sections are not the sole solution,
but we believe they will make a major
impact on the ability of Black socialists
to gain a confidence in the Labour Party
upon which collective political action
can be built.
Our view is that this process will re-
vitalise and strengthen the Party and
campaigning issues will end up being
discussed throughout. Let us be clear.
We are not talking abour creating 'ghettoes'
as some opponents have suggested. We are
abour building an unobstructed avenue for
Black expression in the Party.
Through the creation of Black Sections we
believe Labour will enable the real causes
of racism to be aired and fully understood.
More importantly, Black Sections will make
sure that those who bear the heaviest
brunt of racism in society can at last
play a direct role in its eradication.
This is particularly so in the inner cities
where Labour relies so heavily on the
Black vote but does so little to deserve it.
We say that by direct participation
through Black Sections, we as Black people
will at last be able to represent our
problems thoughts and aspirations by
ourselves are argue for change without
recourse to white middlemen broking on
our behalf.
SUPPORT BLACK SECTIONS NOW
Published by the Black Sections
National Committee