The Labour Party
Black Section
The
Labour Party
Black
Sections.
c/o 5 SHELLEY CRESCENT, HESTON, HOUNSLOW, MIDDX. TW5 9BQ.
Tele; 01-561-9262 (wk) or 570-7441 (hm - before 9pm).
DATE: 5th April 1987
TO THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
c/o THE LABOUR PARTY
150 WALWORTH ROAD,
LONDON, SE17 1JT,
Dear Comrades,
I write to you to inform you of and ask you to act upon
the following resoultion passed at the National Conference of The Labour
Party Black Sections held last month;
"
for
Vauxhall Black Sections calls upon conference to affirm its support
the three Black Council leaders currently suffering a Racist
onslaught from the Tory Government and their friends in the Press. The
attacks on Linda Bellos, Bernie Grant, Merle Amory and their ruling
Labour Groups have come because of their determination to carry out
Socialist policies. Yet again the 'Race card' is being used as a weapon
in the run up to a Genreal Election. we call upon the Labour front Bench
to respond in an uncompromising way by challenging Tory Racism and not
caving in to this orchestrated campaign of vilification. We note that
the Labour leadership have failed to call to account the boot boy's in
the Police who, under the Tories, have been given a licence to shoot and
maim, without punishment, a Black Woman, Cherry Groce, in her home, and
criminalise the Black community with so-called
Drug Raids in
Brixton, St Pauls, and Handsworth. Black Pepole can only have confidence
in Labour if the party actively takes up issues of State Racism and
supports us when we organise to fight this social evil. Conference calls
upon the National Committee to mount a campaign involving our supporters
in the Public Office, aimed at bringing this home to the Labour
Leadership.
"
"
"
Conference felt that the support against such attacks must demand the
support of all comrades in the Labour party. Furthermore, that the
Labour Party NEC must 'go public' and defend the democratically elected
Black leaders and the Policies they are pursuing.
I look forward to the NEC's reply.
Yours for Socialism
Sanjiv Vedi
Assistant Secretary
The Labour Party Black Sections.
cc. Cllr Linda Bellos
Cllr Merle Amory
Cllr Bernie Grant