(Britain)
The Rainbow Coalition (UK)
The Rainbow Coalition - What is it?
1 to facilitate
247 A West Green Road, London, N15
soppressed people outside
The purpose of the Rainbow Coalition is the coming together of the people who are prepared to use their
collective power to change their social conditions.
The Rainbow Coalition hopes to draw its strength from the fact that it is a coalition of the diverse ethnic,
racial, social and political groups which make up our society. We believe that the coming together of all of
these peoples in struggle, by virtue of their sheer numbers, must be more effective than each group working
in isolation.
for peace, equality + intonatiral
*
It is our aim to achieve a basic political realignment in the country against militarism, racism, sexism and
economic deprivation Cooperation
The coalition is based on the principles of equality and mutual respect. It rejects tokenism, condescending
attitudes or denigrating stereotypes which have been so much a part of the culture of our country.
Jadequately
including
The Rainbow Coalition will address many of the issues not taken up by the main political parties:-
Racism
Sexism
Dux Discrimination against people with Disabilities (Ableison).
Disability
Erosion of Local Democracy
Homelessness
Promotion of Civil, Human and Political Rights
Poverty
Discrimination in Any Form
+
Militanam
* The support for people's
5+ seekers@guis.in
14 the fights of Refugees & bayhem seekers ageisin stuggles for indefedence &
The Rainbow Coalition hopes to involve, among others, the following:-
Black and Minority Ethnic Groups
Women
Gay Lesbian Gup
Unemployed people
Refugees
Youth
Students
Environmentalists
Workers
People with Disabilities
The Poor and the Low Paid
Tenants
Civil and Human Rights Groups
Prisoners
Single Parents
Peace Groups
Carers
They Elderly people.
people
self-determination both
nationally & internationally
Heterosexism
We all recognise that the Rainbow Coalition will not just fall into place because of an announcement that
one is being formed. It has to be built and working together to overcome the divisive influences, is the
process through which the Rainbow Coalition will become a formidable reality.
facing
The challenge of the Rainbow Coalition is to go through the process of finding common ground for joint
activity among all interested groups. The challenge is to learn from other and through this learning,
increasing identification with each others needs.
Your