And I want to say to the young people: violence offers no solution to your problems. You can't fight
hatred with hatred. You can't fight fear with fear. You can't fight violence with violence. The State's
response will always escalate. Next time, rubber bullets and CS gas will be used. The time after that, the
Army will be brought in. M to nolasini sisemel, yol to gniqqate oraineys to ex
The only way forward is through political action. I believe that the line I have taken over the last week has
opened up at least the possibility of drawing young people into a dialogue about peaceful political solutions
to your problems. If we could achieve that, it would be a great step forward. So I appeal to you: step back
from the violence and allow the Council to speak for you. senqan ym bne
demos lliw Iźnion s
I also want to say something to the Borough's employers. Strangely enough, I can't do better than to
quote the editorial in Friday's 'Hornsey Journal':
stood
"Hands up every employer who has said: I won't employ blacks - they're lazy."
The Council has been making major efforts to live up to its claim to be an 'equal opportunity employer'.
We still have a very long way to go. But I ask the Borough's other employers: please join our efforts.
Next, I want to say some words to the press. There are more of you here tonight that is usual when we
debate Haringey's pressing problems. You have it in your power to shape people's perceptions of the
current crisis. You can trivialise, you can personalise, you can distort - you can inflame the situation, or
you can cool it down. We appeal to you to help us to cool it.
Cour
Finally, I turn to what the Council itself can do.
First of all, we can clear up the mess. Our employees have already responded magnificently to the
emergency at Broadwater Farm, and I hope every Member of the Council will join me in thanking them all
for that. We will also meet the residents affected to see how the Council can help them to pursue their
claims for compensation.
helor of emod of trem
Secondly, we have a responsibility as the Borough's elected representatives to tackle the crisis of polic-
ing in Tottenham. If the Government refuses to do so, this Council will establish its own independent
inquiry into the recent events, and the wider breakdown in police/community relations which they repre-
sent. We know that many sections of the community live in fear, and need the protection of a responsive
and responsible police force. We believe this can only be achieved by making the management of the police
accountable to elected Members.
Thirdly, we have to give a new priority to the needs of the Borough's young people. Within the Education
Service, youth provision has been the Cinderella for too long. We will continue to fight for jobs for young
people, and we are looking very very seriously at the establishment of a full Youth Committee of the
Council to give a new priority to services for young people.
Last, but not least, we need to rebuild a future for Broadwater Farm. The Youth Association, the
Tenant's Association and the Council have made great strides in bringing confidence and sense of
community to the estate. Obviously, the recent events are a major setback. The Council must respond with
new initiatives. We need the ideas of all the estate's tenants on how to make it a safe and happy environ-
ment; and how to improve the social and recreational facilities for all sections of the community. And then
we must find, or fight for, the resources to make these ideas a reality.
балба
Comrade Mayor, I have spoken long enough. I end on this note. The events of Saturday 5th and Sunday
6th October have happened. They cannot be wished away. They are a reality which we have to tackle.
Met The Council will redouble its efforts to overcome the economic and social deprivation of Tottenham, and
the disadvantage and racism which its black residents face. We want to ensure that all the people of
Haringey, black and white, young and old, can go about their lives free of the fear of violence. I include in
that the violence of unemployment, the violence of poor housing, the violence of poverty. We believe we
I have a right to insist that the Government stops attacking us and starts to help us."
016 дово
Printed by Borough of Haringey
BG/1/2/1/8