Councillor Bernie Grant's speech to a special meeting of
Haringey Council on Monday October 14 concerning the
disturbances at Broadwater Farm on October 6 1985.
The following motion was tabled in the name of Councillor Grant.
It was passed 35 in favour, 16 against, 3 not voting.
"Haringey Council deeply regrets the deaths of Mrs Cynthia Jarrett and PC Blakelock and sends its fullest
condolences to their families in their tragic loss. The Council also extends sympathy to all those injured in
the weekend's disturbances.
These events underline this Council's belief that violence is unacceptable, whether it occurs through
police insensitivity, Government indifference, or public disorder. The callous treatment of Mrs Jarrett and
the killing of PC Blakelock are both inexcusable acts.
This Council recognises the wish of the people we represent to live free of fear. It believes that petrol
bombing, shooting and stone throwing are no answer to the legitimate grievances of black and white
people in Tottenham. The only solution is a political one to end this Government's policies of misery at
the next General Election by replacing it with a Labour Government.
-
This Council recognises that the trigger for the events was insensitive and racist policing. In particular:
⚫ the use of the powers of stop and search in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, which the
Council is on record as opposing;
the circumstances surrounding the arrest of Floyd Jarrett and the subsequent intrusion into the home
of Mrs Jarrett which lead to her death;
Jari vd noem ew rarlw >midt bas gote of ou
the action of the police on Sunday evening (October 6th) in laying an unnecessary cordon around the
Broadwater Farm estate.
lemenu
one dol m
This Council therefore demands: -
пі TUOT
OT
⚫ an immediate return to an acceptable and normal level of policing on Broadwater Farm estate;
⚫ a fully independent public inquiry into the death of Mrs Jarrett and subsequent events and into the
breakdown in police/community relations in Tottenham;
Sce
the suspension, in the meantime, of the officers both concerned in, and responsible for, the raid on
Mrs Jarrett's home;
sutie a tuode
liveal
lq art to sausaged
⚫ full compensation from the Government, for all residents suffering losses;
10an assurance that CS gas and plastic bullets will never be used by the police;
⚫an urgent meeting with the Home Secretary and shadow Home Secretary to pursue these demands.
triguado 8 arb to she
Failing adequate Government response, the Council will: -
⚫ set up its own independent public inquiry;
ni aevise by jug of themom
he young
discuss with the residents affected, how the Council can best assist in pursuing their legitimate
demands for compensation.
This Council is concerned about the hopelessness and despair which prevail among the youth of the
borough. This is caused by the withdrawal of Government funds to the borough together with other
Government economic and social policies.
We, therefore, call on the Secretary of State for the Environment and shadow Secretary of State to visit
Tottenham in order to view the effects in the area of Government policies, including the withdrawal of rate
support grant, cuts in housing capital allocations and the refusal of Programme Status under the Urban
Programme.
neve br
fortw erit
The Council congratulates employees of all its services whose prompt action restored normal service so
quickly to Broadwater Farm estate and the surrounding area.
ewely