to eniteem laloages of dosage a'te
пом
eines ollion
erit nimeɔnco Af 19doto ysbnoM no lionuo
yagnivaH
.888 @ 1edoto0 no mms? 10 swba018 is seonschutzib
Finally, this Council condemns the biased press coverage of recent events and the emotive and racist
reactions expressed by speakers at last week's Conservative Party conference. This has hindered the
Council and the local community in their efforts to achieve our joint aims of a return to normality and an end
to violence.
ones bns doolexel809 bns temel, siritny aM to aritseb erit atengen vlgest lionuo vegansH"
We resolve to use all means, including a special issue of the Haringey Star, in order to ensure that the
Council's stance is clearly understood and that the process of reconciliation is enhanced."
Aguonis
llonuo sirit enil
angeni sollag
bris temel aim to temtsest auoliso erit abrozib olduq no soneratibni memmevo
etos aldssuoxeni ritodens doos 39 to grib orth
Speaking to the motion Councillor Grant said:
"The whole Council has already expressed its deepest regret at the deaths of Mrs Cynthia Jarrett and
PC Keith Blakelock. We wrote immediately to convey our condolences to both families, and we have just
stood silently in memory of both the deceased.
uode sriw ti nisigen yd noltoel lane xen a
Mrs Jarrett leaves five children and nine grandchildren. PC Blakelock leaves a wife and three sons. They
have to face these tragic losses for the rest of their lives. They have my wholehearted personal sympathy.
In the community, the pressing need now is for reconciliation. I will come to that shortly. But first I want
to ask: why did it happen?
In our motion we refer to the hopelessness and despair of the young people of Tottenham. I want the
Council to stop and think what we mean by that.
tritseb ver o bael doidw temal a to
In the Tottenham parliamentary constituency, in September 1985, 10,168 people were registered
unemployed. At the Tottenham Job Centre there were three registered vacancies. Let me say that again.
There were THREE registered job vacancies.
To put it another way, one man in four in Tottenham's labour force, and one women in seven, is
unemployed.ma etawbao18 no
to level lermont be eldstede na or mutar stelbemmins
These are figures for the constituency as a whole. For young people, the situation is far, far worse. We
estimate that some 60 per cent of the young people of Broadwater Farm are unemployed. And no one can
doubt that, if we had the statistics, the figures for black young people would be higher still.
Comrade Mayor, we are talking about a situation where the routine experience of young black people,
leaving school in Tottenham, is to have no job to go to and no prospect of a job. And therefore no money,
because of the pitiful inadequacy of the state benefit system - even before the further cuts contemplated
by the Fowler Reviews. And therefore no access to the goods and services and styles of life which many of
us on the Council take for granted.maH woberle bne viste1092 amo artritiw gniteam ineptus o
I ask all Members, and particularly the Members representing the wealthier western parts of the Borough:
try for a moment to put yourselves in the position of those young black people.vo stoupaba gnile
But economic deprivation has been with us for years, and extends far beyond Broadwater Farm Estate.
Yet it rarely leads to a revolt of the kind we saw on Broadwater Farm. Something else is needed to trigger
Farm. Someb
such an angry reaction.
hotsanegmoo not ebrismeb
That 'something else' is oppressive policing. Policing which is totally insensitive to the needs of an area
like Tottenham. Policing which, to many local people, seems to have more to do with containing their
grievances than protecting their interest. Policing which is frankly racist.art yd beauso al siriT diguosod
Don't take my word for it. Cast your minds back to last year's Policy Studies Institute report on the
Metropolitan Police - commissioned by the police themselves. Researchers who spent two years working
with the police found that, and I quote:
to
marinetto
"Racialist language and racial prejudice were prominent and pervasive... racialist talk and racial
prejudice are... on the whole expected, accepted and even fashionable... we cannot produce
pa examples of police officers objecting to racialist language or arguing with others who express racialist
views."
bne states must
of
по
They found that the police make a crude equation between blacks and crime; and that black people are
more likely than whites to be the victims of indiscriminate stop-and-search procedures. These factors were
of major importance in the build-up of tension on Broadwater Farm in recent weeks. They were at the heart
of the sequence of events - the stopping of Floyd Jarrett, the invasion of Mrs Jarrett's home - which led
to the weekend's disturbances.
lenil art sad sveiled I.noitos
nilari
trilog riquant al biswiol yew vino edT
Over the last week I have given literally dozens of press and media interviews - and I have been sharply
criticized for some of my remarks. As a black Council leader in an area affected by the disturbances, I have
been in a unique position - and my responses have been emotional as well as political. I know that some
things could have been better said. But I have told the truth - a point I will come back to later. And I insist
on the importance of what I have been trying to say. I have been trying to articulate the perceptions of
those young black people who do see the police as their enemy. I have been arguing that theirs is an
authentic social response - not a product of original sin or mythical outside agitators. It is one voice in our
community, and if we try to suppress it, or pretend it is not there, we will make the situation worse.
to s
The need now is to embark on a process of reconciliation. The Council itself has a major responsibility
here. But many others have a part to play, and I want first to address my remarks to them.
First, the Government seek several responses: aldong gnizes a ver
-
from gy to
ow emos
eisdab
10 We demand that they set up a fully independent public inquiry into the death of Mrs Jarrett and the
subsequent events. The community will not have confidence in the outcome of the inquiry which the police
themselves are now conducting.
ob niso fear linu
na
len
• We call for full financial compensation for all residents who suffered losses.
to
We want the Home Secretary to meet us urgently to discuss the crisis of confidence in Tottenham
policing. of merit gled nao fonuc art worl see or betoets stebisen art team oals lliw eW Jednot
• We want the Secretary of State for the Environment to come to Tottenham and see for himself what
the Government's economic and social policies are doing to the area. We want the burden of Government
spending cuts lifted from the Borough. We want to be freed from the treadmill of cuts in Rate Support
Grant and the high rates that result. We want a start made on implementing the modest proposals of the
Scarman report.or
vtinumm
to enoitos
soling air to namepanem ad gnism yd beveidos ed vino neo airs eveiled eW.enot
Next I want to say something to the police themselves. We have some immediate demands, arising
directly from recent events. We call for:
Dono art to absen erit oz ythong wen e evig of ever aw
The suspension of all those officers concerned in the raid on Mrs Jarrett's home.
Inee
brie
An assurance that CS gas and plastic bullets - thankfully not used at Broadwater Farm - will never
be used.
But the issues go much wider. I call on the police to show some respect for the young people of
Haringey. Two people have died in the chain of events which started on Saturday 5 October. That is
enough. There must be a rethink of how Tottenham is policed and the Council is prepared to play a full part
in that.
A vinummos e to anoi
brie lsloos erit
loos erit evonami of worl bns nom
It is no secret that Members on this side at first considered more drastic action to convey to the police our
sense of outrage. We did agree that we could only pay the police precept, when it next falls due, if certain
conditions were met. I have received a direct appeal from the Leader of the Labour Party, Comrade Neil
Kinnock, to step back from this threat. The Labour Group has agreed to do so, to avoid any further
polarisation. We ask the police to show the same willingness to rethink their own position.
Next I want to speak to the young people of Tottenham. I said earlier that I had spoken the truth last
week about their situation and their attitudes. Now I want to speak my mind to them.
I want to say that some things are wrong. Drug-trafficking is wrong. Thieving is wrong. Attacks on old
people are wrong. Many of them have spent a lifetime fighting oppression also.
ucho yd bein