000
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA
Chief Superintendent Gilbertson,
Tottenham Police Station,
398, High Road,
LONDON N17 9JA
7th November 1994
Dear Chief Superintendent Gilbertson,
RE: TOTTENHAM
-
STOP AND SEARCH STATISTICS
May I first of all welcome you to your new post in Tottenham. I
hope that we will enjoy good relations, and that
that it will
it will be
possible for us to meet from time to
from time to time to discuss Policing
issues in Tottenham. As
As you will no doubt know from your
predecessor Alan Wright, this has become a useful means of
informal co-operation.
I am sorry to press you so soon after your arrival on the question
of Stop and Search incidents in Tottenham. This is an issue which
has concerned me for some time, and which was to have been the
subject of a meeting between myself and Alan Wright last week. Due
to my own illness however, I'm afraid that the meeting could not
take place, and thus I must now raise the matter with you.
Perhaps it would be helpful if I explain the background to this. I
recently noticed
noticed a marked
marked increase in the numbers of stop and
search incidents in my constituency, and requested comparative
data from the Tottenham Police. Supt. Robbins kindly provided me
with the figures for the number of Stop and Search Incidents in
Tottenham for the second quarter of 1993 along with the figures
for the same period this year and the number of arrests arising
from these incidents.
The fiqures for the second quarter of this year represent
virtually a 100% increase over last year. In total 2,403 people
were stopped and searched in the second quarter of 1994, compared
with 1,233 last year. Of these only 205 were arrested (not
convicted), compared with 124 last year. Thus 2,198 people were
subject to stop and search procedures, which in the event were not
justified, in this three month period.
These figures are worrying. On this basis, one could expect almost.
10,000 people to be stopped by the Police in Tottenham in any one
year. Out of every 10 of those, only one would have been stopped
with justification. The other nine will often have been forced out
of their car in full public view, had its contents thoroughly
searched, and been delayed on their way for a half an hour or so