00000
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA
whilst checks are made for no real reason.
-
We all understand the need for the Police to be pro-active in the
effort to prevent crime. However there is a balance to be struck
between the proper exercise of their responsibilities in this
regard, and the protection of basic liberties. People have a right
to go about their business without hindrance, and where such large
numbers of people are being stopped, that right is in danger of
being eroded.
There is also a balance to be struck between preventative Police
work and good community relations. People do not enjoy being
stopped and searched, especially if they are entirely innocent.
Where an individual is repeatedly stopped for no good reason, or
where a particular section of the community appears to be being
stopped frequently, considerable resentment can be caused.
I am concerned as to the ethnic distribution of those being
stopped in this way, and would be grateful if you would provide
these statistics. My own observations are that it is black
motorists who seem to be being
be being stopped disproportionately,
(although not exclusively) and this is consistent with the many
complaints which have been made to me by constituents.
'
I am sure that you will recall the serious problems which the old
"sus" laws created for the black community in particular. You
will also be aware of the enhanced stop and search powers which
the Police have been given under the new Police and Criminal
Justice Act. In this context, I believe that the dramatically
increased instance of Stop & Search must be a cause for grave
concern, and the situation needs careful monitoring. I would be
grateful therefore if you would let me have all future statistics
on Tottenham stops and searches as they become available.
What would also be helpful would be some indication of how the
increased incidence of Stop and Search compares with other areas
in London. Is it possible for you to supply me with statistics for
other areas ?
I would of course be more than happy to meet with you to discuss
this matter. Perhaps when you have had time to settle in your new
post, you would like to arrange a convenient time with my office.
I have also written to the Haringey Community and Police
Consultative Group, and H.R.E.C. to express my concern about
this.
Yours sincerely,
BERNIE GRANT M.P.