The Broadwater HARINGEY COMMUNITY
Farm Inquiry
RELATIONS COUNCIL PRESS RELEASE
26 MAR 1986
Members:
Chairman: Lord Gifford QC
Rt. Rev. Bishop Philip Harvey OBE
Rev. Canon Sebastian Charles
Dorothy Kuya
Dr. Paul Corrigan
Randolph Prime
1214
HCre
4th Floor
Cambridge House
109 Mayes Road
Wood Green
London N22
Tel: 01-888 3453
Police Staged 'Practice Run For a Riot' Inquiry Told.
Police staged a practice run for a riot at Broadwater Farm
Estate,
Tottenham weeks before last October's disturbances,
the independent Broadwater Farm Inquiry heard on Sunday.
Rumours that a riot was imminent on Broadwater Farm were
being spread by police though there was no basis for them,
members of the estate's Youth Association told the six person
panel of Inquiry at its second hearing of evidence at
Broadwater Farm Junior School.
come
-
Of the 'practice run' in September, police were said to have
down to
the estate from everywhere. "There was
helicopters, Rovers, policemen on horseback. They came down
for no reason%3B there was nothing going on on the estate. They
were on a test run for a riot", a member of the Youth
Association told the hearing.
Association Youth worker Mr Stafford Scott confirmed the test
run and added: "For years, we have known that every office in
Tottenham Police Station has a large scale map of Broadwater
Farm drawn off, and they have areas marked in red, where
should anything happen, they will take the estate. It was
'proven' on their test run that they could take the estate in
ten minutes said Mr Scott.
"
Rumours of an impending riot in Tottenham had been going
around since the disturbances in Handsworth in September
1985, said Mr Scott. But his brother, voluntary worker Mr.
Millard Scott told the Panel that every summer Tottenham
Police Station went on standby
on standby because they believed there
was going to be a riot. "They always have an influx of men
into the area when the time gets hot." he said.
"The plans
they use show that they were prepared to subdue a riot on
Broadwater Farm from 1983, and the riot never took place
until 1985, which means they thought they had reason to make
those plans. Therefore, they have always been anticipating
our actions towards them, never their actions towards us".
1