Rumours of imminent trouble was always passed on by police to
the 'right places' such as to the council and race relations
bodies he added. They would say%;B "They're going to riot up
Broadwater Farm, we've heard about it, we know." he said.
They would back up this with evidence such as there had been
practice throwing of petrol bombs. But Officers sent down to
investigate claim that they found no evidence, no scorching
on the ground; no glass on the ground nothing.
-
But they still persisted in saying: "They're going to riot.
What they think is, that we're so stupid that we'll riot for
no cause whatsoever".
People could not understand why police
put round rumours
"Tottenham
every year in Tottenham, said Mr. Stafford Scott.
is not an area where they've had riots before. In 1981 when
they had riots and copy-cat riots, there were no such things
in Tottenham... people from Tottenham have not been arrested
in large numbers at any other riots, so it's not as if
there's any militant core there that would trigger a riot.
The beliefs the police had were totally unbased. But the
fact that they had these beliefs meant that they were going
to act in a manner that would create such a day. And the day
was October 6th."
In the week prior to October 6th, there had been heavy police
action in the area. "Black people were being stopped in
their cars as they drove onto the estate". said another
witness, Mr. Harry Adams, also of the Youth Association.
Members of the Youth Association were addressed by the
leaders and urged not to react or let themselves be provoked.
"What they were trying to do was to antagonise people to get
a reaction. And we were saying to people just keep calm and
they'll go away". said Mr. Adams.
There had in fact been no reason for the police to believe
that tension was rising, said the Youth Association
representatives. Mr. Stafford Scott referred to an incident
quoted in DAC Richards' report in which
in which the Asian-owned
supermarket in the estate's shopping centre was daubed with
"The supermarket was daubed with things
graffitti:
like
Niggers rule' I don't know any black person who would go
around and write such a slogan. That just smacks of another
group of people, non-black people, putting that there to
throw the blame on the black sections of the community."
Rejecting the idea that the increase in police stopping and
searching of black youths had been sufficient to raise
tension, Mr.
Millard Scott said, "We've been stopped and
searched for years%3B it's nothing new. Everybody who has been
in Tottenham has been stopped and searched at some time for
something. Once you're black and on the streets, that's the
bottom line. So there is no reason in 1985 that we should get
up and decide to riot about it."
2