4
- 2 -
10 noiisipoza A nobno
22
Nevertheless, we reject as naive or dishonest the supposition that what
happened in Brixton and Tottenham can be explained away, simply or even
primarily, in terms of criminal hooliganism and wickedness.
investigation of crimes committed during the riots needs to be matched
The rigorous
by an equally searching examination of why communities reacted with such
bro vehemence to the shooting of Mrs Groce and the death of Mrs Jarrett.
The fundamental reason, we believe, is that each of these tragic events
was seen as the last straw: the intolerable culmination of a series of
incidents in which the police, in L District and in Y District alike,
are perceived to have acted in a manner that was provocative, aggressive
and, above all, racist.
I puod no
6
5
There is a widespread belief that unjustifiable force was used in earlier
search-and-entry operations involving black families. Equally widespread
is the belief that black people frequently experience racial harassment
and abuse on the streets. Careful monitoring of all the media reports
of the rioting shows, significantly, that whenever young people in the
areas concerned, and especially young black people, were given an
opportunity of explaining why the riots occurred, they invariably talked
not of social deprivation or even of unemployment, but of their gut
reaction to a style of policing which they regard as "heavy" and
discriminatory. This explanation has been endorsed by some older people
in the black community who is no way condone the violence that ensued.
It is a view which also receives some support, as far as L District is
concerned, from the warning given by the Lambeth Panel of Lay Visitors
in their report to the Consultative Group for the first six months of
this year that, on the basis of complaints made to them of ill-treatment
during arrest, there appeared to be a deterioration in police behaviour
on the streets, especially in Brixton and Clapham. Criticism of this
kind of police behaviour during the period leading up to the riots has
been extended by some responsible observers to include allegations that
no during and after the riots individual officers assaulted or otherwise
mistreated innocent black people who were trapped by the affray
allegations which reinforce the community perception of police aggression
and racism.
bre
Jon of sw beavisne vlaseIbne need even bris bedomoob low need sved
These allegations will be familiar to you. We believe they must be
investigated. Despite all the effort that has been put into improving
community/police relations over the past four years, it is evident that
some sections of the community, and probably the majority of young black
people, are deeply and bitterly alienated from the police.
for that alienation need urgent examination.
The reasons
If the allegations of
police racism and misbehaviour proved to be well-founded, then the
Commissioner would need to take drastic action to change policing attitudes
and practices before any bridge-building could take place. If the
allegations proved to be unsubstantiated or exaggerated, then an effective
campaign would have to be launched to dispel popular myths.
the allegations cannot be ignored.
Either way,
If they are brushed aside, the ferment
of resentment and anger will continue, with further disastrous effects.
7
Recommended action d iw beson se leew
rd
fooldua aire no al di bre
doT bris
bas no
daal no subalb tuo dus
udalb si to
As I have already said, we do not believe another comprehensive inquiry
of the kind conducted by Lord Scarman in 1981 is needed. But we do
you to set up specific inquiries into certain aspects of the events that
urge
took place in Brixton and Tottenham and, more widely, of Metropolitan
Police policy and practice. We have in mind four closely-targetted
inquiries which could take place now without prejudice to the outcome of
the investigations into the shooting of Mrs Groce and the circumstances
. Ideano soffo to sb
...as
/ of...