-3-
7. Linked to 6. above, stop/search and arrest identified as a legitimate means of
intervention for referral of users to helping agencies.
Community
8. The increasing criminal use of firearms and firearms related offences on Tottenham
Division, requiring an assertive response.
It may also be the case, although this can only be surmised, that there was significant
under-reporting of searches last year, in that officers may have failed to submit routine
reports in respect of those straight forward searches which were brief and where nothing
was found.
A training programme during the last 12 months has sharpened such
procedures and part of the increase may have occurred as a result.
Your comment about the arrest rate is valid but I should point out that Tottenham
compares well with London as a whole where the overall ratio is static at around 10%.
In so far as ethnicity is concerned, you will wish to know that in advance of directions
from the Home Secretary under S.95, Criminal Justice Act 1991, the Metropolitan Police
began the ethnic and gender monitoring of stop-search in September 1992. From April
1993, Her Majesties Inspector of Constabulary requested all forces in England and Wales
to ethnically monitor stops as part of 49 performance indicators. It was anticipated that
the statistics would be published for the financial year 1993/94 in Summer 1994, but this
did not happen. I am informed by the Commissioners Central Staff that publication of
the latest figures will now take place in the financial year 1995/96 (i.e. at some time after
March 1995), but the form in which they will be published has yet to be determined. As
an issue of strategic importance it is currently receiving attention at the highest level in
the service.
The interpretation of any statistical data requires a great deal of care and specialist
knowledge. None of us should do anything that would allow ill-intentioned people any
opportunity to misuse statistics to reinforce racial stereotypes.
I hope this letter goes some way towards reassuring you or that at the very least it can be
used as a starting point in our discussions. I have referred your request for the regular
provision of statistics, to my Assistant Commissioner and I will write again when I have
his view on the subject.
The issues raised in your letter are of such importance that it would clearly be
advantageous for us to meet. I will contact your office in the next week or so to make the
necessary arrangements.