-2-
Dealing first with the increase. I of course acknowledge that an explanation is
appropriate, but would argue that when viewed against the background of National Key
Objectives, Metropolitan Police strategic priorities and divisional objectives in relation to
performance against crime, the increase could be argued to be valid.
mham
Divisional objectives, which were first formulated in 1992, were framed after close
consultation with all sections of the local community and set policing priorities for the
five years up to 1997. In this context objectives 4 and 5 are particularly relevant. The
requirement to provide high visibility policing to reassure the public and to target and
prevent crimes which impact heavily on the quality of life of local people, is a function
of the way in which officers are briefed and deployed.
As you acknowledge, stop/search powers are a legitimate means of preventing and
detecting crime. Officers are kept up to date with all relevant information concerning the
location and timing of offences and the description of suspects as provided by victims.
They are encouraged to use their powers to detect offenders and indeed they have a
public duty to so, for local people have a right to expect that their police are active and
diligent. The sensitivity of such activity and its impact on community relations is well
understood by me and my senior officers. All officers are trained to ensure that they fully
understand the legislation and codes of practice. Most importantly, they are reminded
that the grounds on which they can conduct a search are closely defined and that misuse
of their powers would render them liable at law and under the service disciplinary code.
There is a causal link between poor community relations and misuse of police powers - I
am fully conscious of the need therefore to ensure that such powers are used
appropriately and in the relevant circumstances. My research would tend to indicate that
the increase is due to a combination of the following factors:-
1. The steady month on month increase in cases of street robbery which has led to
officers being directly tasked to areas of high incidence, particularly Seven Sisters
Road and Bruce Grove.
2. The displacement of crime and offenders away from burglary towards street robbery.
3. The improved quality of intelligence.
4. The use of information technology as a means of quickly assessing and evaluating
changing crime patterns.
5. Recent evidence of a proven link between drugs and crime.
6. Increase in the ease of availability of dangerous drugs, particularly Heroin and Crack
Cocaine.