Daily Mail
BROADWATER
FARM
Daily
Mail
Exclusive
TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1986
Sergeant's shock report
20p
MY RIOT
WARNINGS
IGNORED
By PETER BURDEN and JOHN PASSMORE
A DAMNING report on the
policing of the Broadwater
Farm estate in Tottenham
before the riot is being
investigated by Scotland Yard.
It was written by the woman sergeant
in charge of the nine-strong home beat
police team there, 28-year-old WPS Gillian
Meynell.
She claims that:
A WARNING of the possibility of a riot was given by
her team four days before it happened, at a meeting
with her superior, Chief Superintendent Colin Couch.
He was reluctant to listen' and 'balked at the idea'.
A SOFTLY-SOFTLY policy imposed by senior officers
had left the estate at the mercy of roaming gangs of
masked black youths for three months beforehand.
EVIDENCE of drug-taking 50 empty plastic packets
collected by her officers there - was thrown away on
Mr Couch's orders.
A CRATE of petrol bombs was found on the estate the
week before the riot and brought back to the police
station. The officer involved-an inspector-informed
a senior officer and 'was told to throw them away'.
A NO-GO area for police patrols was ordered around
two tower blocks, Tangmere and Stapleford. The home
The police sergeant's report
in full Pages Six and Seven
beat team could not understand how everyone was
told there was not a no-go area 'when there so ob-
viously was.'
WPS Meynell sent her signed report, with a photo-
copy of the Incident Book on Broadwater Farm in
which her team kept a record of the increasing law-
lessness there, to the Police Federation within a week
after the Broadwater Farm riot last October.
She did this, she says, as a record of the statement
she made to the Yard's own investigation into the
riot because 'I was sure there was going to be a white-
wash.'
The federation sent her report on to the Yard-
and police colleagues sent a copy to the Daily Mail.
A preliminary report on the riot by the Yard's
Deputy Assistant Commissioner Mike Richards was
Turn to Page 2, Col. 6
28
Police Sergeant Gillian Meynell yesterday
Picture by STEVE BACK