HARINGEY COMMUNITY RELATIONS COUNCIL
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING, 23 SEPTEMBER 1982
REPORT OF THE SENIOR COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICER
1.
2.
BROADWATER FARM
A short report on Broadwater Farm arising out of the serious
deterioration in the relationship between the Police and sections
of the Residents.
The estate was opened in 1970 when it was acclaimed as an up-
to-date example of modern design and good industrialised building
techniques. It is made up of 1.063 units with seven deck access
low rise blocks, 27 terraced houses and two tower blocks. A
shopping precinct, with a doctor's surgery, was included.
3. By mid-1970, a number of problems were obvious. There were water
penetration and dampness, a faulty district heating system and
cockroach infestation through the piping ducts. A substantial
number of tenants were refusing offers of rehousing on the
estate. The people who more readily accepted accommodation
were invariably those with the least choice. They included a
disproportionate number of homeless and one-parent families and
a significant number of the unemployed.
4.
5.
The resultant effect was, among other social and economic factors,
imbalance in the age ranges on the estate. In an attempt to
redress this worrying situation, the Housing Committee, in 1978,
implemented a policy of letting to the children of existing
tenents to the newly-wed and to single people sharing flats.
By 1980, the 1978 policy was abandoned due to the acute housing
shortage across the borough and the feeling that allocations
were sufficiently flexible to avoid any further undue concentration
of low income and homeless families on Broadwater Farm. This
assumption, as it turned out to be, was wrong and in a nine
months period ending in early June 1981 eighty five per cent of
the two and three bedroom units on the estate were allocated to
the homeless.
In the meantime, the specific problems and the general dis-
satisfaction about the estate inevitably led to increasing
frustration and racial tension. There was violence between
tenants, a spate of burglaries, vandalism, swastika and other
racist daubings, and attempted arson on black families. As a
result, police surveillance was noticeably increased. This
increase coupled to the police methods adopted led to a most
serious deterioration in the relationship between tenants and
the police, including the home beat officers. In July this
year, on two seperate occasions a policeman was hit over the
head and injured. On a third occasion, another policeman was.
similarly hit but was only slightly stunned.