-
3-
11.
12.
13.
The physical state and appearance of the estate does not readily
support the allegation of being a 'ghetto' or 'sink' estate
and the recent decisions to spend two substantial sums of money
on improvements are indicative of a policy decision to avert
such a situation. But, however, there remains the irrefutable
fact that successive housing policies have resulted in the
incredibly high concentration of black tenants on this estate
as against other estates.
It is also strongly felt that management transfers have exacerbated
the situation. White tenants on the estate would appear, in the
absence of any ethnic records, to be able to successfully lobby
for transfers elsewhere while black tenants on the estate who
similarly apply for a transfer are usually turned down.
Throughout the several discussions I had with people about the
estate, it was strongly felt that the Local Authroity had abrogated
much of its responsibilities over the past decade. There was no
response to the early changed situation on the estate when it was
obvious that the residents would have needs different from the
needs envisaged by the planners. It was also obvious that the
racial mix on the estate was swiftly becoming different from
the racial mix on other estates in the borough and elsewhere
across the country. It was a known fact that racial tension had
been growing since the mid-1970s and no action was even contemplated,
let alone taken, to deal with this situation. There was no
positive response to racist literature sent to black tenants,
racist daubings, and attempted arson until the recent spate of
daubings nearby in North Tottenham, followed by the public demand
for a positive response.
The several initiatives taken in the past two years should, if
continued and strengthened, avert the likelihood of the estate
degenerating into a 'ghetto' or 'sink' estate. The Local Authority
will be central to the future of the estate, and must be seen to
be playing its part to the full. I would, therefore, recommend
that:
(1) there be an early inquiry/survey into the situation on
Broadwater Farm to accurately and objectively determine
the extent of the several problems, personal and collective,
affecting all tenants on the estate.
(2)
(3)
two experienced Community Workers be allocated on a
full-time basis to the estate as speadily as possible and
that one worker be black and the other worker white to
maintian an equalibrium of trust, confidence and impartiality
between black and white tenants on the estate.
an early meeting be held between the Police, and the Local
Authority, and Haringey Community Relations Council to
discuss and take appropriate action on the problems on the
estate as they affect policing on the estate and environs.
Jeff Crawford
SENIOR COMMUNITY RELATIONS OFFICER
September 1982