-
2 -
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
Our Police Liaison Officers have been intermittently involved with
incidents on the estate and have made several visits to the estate
usually in response to appeals from the police. The ambivalent
attitude to our Police Liaison Scheme has made it extremely
difficult for us to establish and subsequently maintain consistent
and ongoing links with the estate. There have been, however,
several instances when assistance has been rendered to individuals
and families.
One significant reason for the level of racial tension has been
community involvement or lack of it by the black residents on the
estate. In 1970 a Tenants Association was established and was
continually under white control and domination until 1979 when it
was forced to deal with the wide range of problems affecting the
estate. By May 1982, a new constitution was adopted making the
Association and its Social Club more democratic and multi-racial.
This change resulted in a degree of acrimony between different
interests groups on the estate and although the acrimony has
subsided some tension still persists.
A Community Worker had been allocated to the estate, but has now
left due to the situation outlined in the preceding paragraph. He
has not been replaced thereby leaving the estate without the badly
needed services of such a worker. The Youth Service has placed
a detached youth worker on the estate and the Community Development
Unit has been giving support and advice to the new community self-
help initiatives, particularly the Broadwater Farm Youth Association,
who recently promoted a highly successful weekend festival on the
estate. Our Council gave financial assistance to this particular
project and has also, over a period of time, given substantial
assistance to the Blue Archers Netball Team based on the estate.
The deteriorating situation, particularly with the police, forced
the Local Authority to positively respond to the fear that there
could be an outbreak of serious disorder on the estate. As the
landlord, the Authority was seen as having an obligation to take
action. It was decided to allocate approximately £160,000 in
1982/83 for improvement to security doors controlled entry systems,
fencing and play facilities. A further £500,000 have been embarked
for planned maintenance involving painting and renewal of woodwork.
A series of meetings have been held between the Police, Senior
Councillors and Officers and Residents of the estate in the Civic
Centre and more recently on the estate. The tension has since
dropped considerably and there has been a reappraisal of policing
the estate. The fear of serious disorder now appears to have
receded.
In the absence of any ethnic records being kept, it is estimated
that the level of black tenants is between sixty per cent to
eighty per cent of all tenants. There is general agreement that
it is sixty per cent at least. Allegations are somewhat rife
that there is a deliberate policy to turn the estate into a
black ghetto' while there might be no hard evidence to substantiate
this claim, the fact that black tenants are disproportionate on
the estate was bound to lead to several assumptions.