अ
Black people in Brixton, Tottenham, Liverpool 8, and Southall, recently rose
up against the rising tide of racist police violence.
On Saturday 28th September 1985, Mrs Cherry Groce, an innocent black
woman, was shot and paralysed, at her home, by armed police, supposedly
conducting 'routine inquiries'.
On Saturday 5th October, Mrs Cynthia Jarrett, another innocent black
mother, died as a result of a police raid on her home.
In both cases, the anger and the frustration felt by the local community led to
spontaneous uprisings.
The experiences of black people of the police are bitter, as testified by the
cases of the Bradford 12, Winston Rose, Colin Roach, the Newham 7, Junior
Service, Eustace Pryce..
Eustac
TO TUO
Black people in all communities must unite to defend our liberty against
rising state racism, which has resulted in us suffering all kinds of injustices,
including mass unemployment, police violence, ghetto housing, and poverty.
conditions.
This demonstration has been called to demand that Inspector Lovelock be
immediately arrested and charged with the attempted murder of Cherry Groce.
The officers responsible for the death of Cynthia Jarrett should be similarly
arrested and charged.
public
into the shooting of
We call for an independent public inquiry into the shooting of Mrs Groce,
and the killing of Mrs Jarrett. Because of past experiences, we have no
confidence in a police, or a judicial, inquiry. The community must define
the terms.TXIAGOS TA ms 0.11
Injustice has been compounded by the media lies and distortion of the events.
THIS CAMPAIGN IS TO ENSURE THAT JUSTICE IS DONE!
MAS OMA X30
If you would like further details about the campaign or the demonstration, or would
like to make a donation to the campaign's funds, contact us at the address below:
ngisc
Published by: Groce Family Support & Community Defence Campaign,
c/o 506 Brixton Road, London SW9. Tel: 01-326 1397.
Printed by Eastway Offset Ltd, 3-13 Hepscott Road, London E9 5HB.
TRENDS Printed b