Your reference:
Our reference:
RECEIVED
6 - FEB 1996
David Gilbertson
Commander (Operations)
Date:
1 February 1996
Bernie Grant MP
House of Commons
London SW1 1AA
Dear
Mr
Grant,
METROPOLITAN
POLICE
METROPOLITAN POLICE SERVICE
2 Area (North West) Headquarters
3 The Mall
Kenton
Harrow HA3 9TF
Telephone 0181-909 1212
Facsimile 0181-733 4190
As you are aware, the Commissioner selected me for promotion to the rank of
Commander in November last year and I am currently 'in post' as the Head of
Operations for No 2 Area (North West). I have delayed writing to you formally as the
approval and ratification of my Fixed Term Appointment has been the subject of
lengthy procedural wrangling between the Metropolitan Police Service and the MPC
and I wanted to be in a position to give you firm information about policing
arrangements for Tottenham.
Let me say from the start that I feel real regret at giving up the command of Tottenham
Division after only one year. My promotion came as a complete surprise to me and
when, back in November 1994, I said that I anticipated remaining in Haringey for the
remaining years of my service, I truly expected that would be the case. I have an
immense affection for the Tottenham - I find it a vibrant and friendly area despite all its
problems where people of good will, who are in all positions of influence, can make a
tremendous difference. To that extent I have been at pains to ensure that I can
continue to have a link with the operational policing of the borough in order to impact
policy at the all important strategic level.
My Assistant Commissioner, Baden Skitt, has therefore agreed that I will have an
inspectorial overview of the activity on Tottenham and Hornsey Divisions (and
incidentally in the boroughs of Barnet and Hertsmere as well). Clearly day to day
responsibility will fall to the divisional commanders at both places but I will retain my
position on the Upper Lee Valley Partnership, will continue to develop initiatives with
the North London TEC, and of course will continue as co-sponsor of the vital local
initiative on Stop and Search which you and I launched last year. You will see that my
intention is to be as closely involved in Haringey as I ever was.
On a personal level, I would like to say how much I have enjoyed working with you
and that I sincerely hope we will continue to work together for the people of Haringey.
Members of Parliament are in bad odour at the moment, not least because many are
1