ba
20
London Association of
Community Relations Councils
A regional group of the
National Association
of CRCS
to molt
Room 505 ovn
Middlesex House
20 Vauxhall Bridge Road
London SWIV 2SA
Tel: 01 821 6449
tend
Queen Anne's Gate
b591
The Rt Hon Douglas Hurd CBE MP
Home Office
London SW1H 9AT
24 October 1985
Secretary of State for the Home Department
2
Is to pr
bex
Dear
ear Home Secretary
28 3 Jon
Ib
1 Some 40 representatives of London community relations councils met
last week to consider the recent rioting in Brixton and Tottenham.
After listening to the experience of some of our members who are
#I
community workers in the affected areas, they asked me to convey to
you their concern about various aspects of community/police relations.
Inner city problems and policies
2
nai
asbud
The background to our discussion was, of course, our awareness of the
deep and long-term problems of inner city decay and deprivation, to
which you have referred in recent speeches. Bad housing, a squalid
environment, high levels of unemployment, poverty, racial discrimination
in the job market, the sense of powerlessness which these social pressures
produce, the exploitation of that sense of powerlessness by drug pushers
and other criminals, all contribute to urban unrest. These problems
have been well documented and have been endlessly analysed. We do not
therefore advocate any further inquiry of the kind conducted by Lord
Scarman four years ago. What is needed, we believe, and needed
urgently, is Government action to implement Lord Scarman's proposals,
and those of the Commons Home Affairs Committee of the same year, for
a co-ordinated and well directed attack on inner city problems in
general and on racial disadvantage in particular. We welcome recent
press reports that the Government is now examining its inner city
policies with a view to developing that sort of strategic attack, and
we urge that this examination should lead to imaginative action on
the scale required, backed by political will and expenditure commensurate
with the need.
Yer I betonpt ad Jonno anodisp
adavad
th
We make
Policing issues
We see
the Me
to the sub
tan Police to
ticisms of
3
But our discussion last week was concerned with the immediate causes
of the disturbances in Brixton and Tottenham, and it is on this subject
that I have been asked to write to you.
a A
In both places the rioting
was preceded by, and developed out of, a spontaneous outburst of ord
community anger and grief, generated by the shooting of a black woman
and the death of another black woman in the course of search-and-entry
operations by the police. We do not dispute the view that this genuine
community anger was then exploited by people who wished to make it an
excuse for indulging in criminal acts. We condemn those acts, and in
particular the murder of Police Constable Blakelock.
to
4 Nevertheless...