At the end of the interview the social worker asked if the police were going.
to charge the boy so the boy could then come into the care system. The police
said they would continue to hold him 'incommuncado' and they would be
interviewing further the next day. The social worker asked if a solicitor
could be present. The police refused.
On the following day the social worker consulted the boys solicitor and
decided on the appropriate course of action. When the police asked the social
worker to be present, the social worker said that he had consulted with the boys
solicitor. On the basis of this the police then said that the social worker
could not be present at the interview. This young person subsequently made
a statement, in the presence of a person from the police panel of community
representatives implicating himself very seriously in the riots. Once he
had access to his solicitor he was then advised to change the statement.
A further example is a request by the police on 12.10.85 for a social worker
to attend interviews of juveniles. The duty social worker explained that he
was not able to do so but had arranged for a solicitor who could be present.
The police turned down this offer.
---
Also on 12.10.85 another request for a social worker to attend an interview.
When the social worker explained that a solicitor could attend the policeman
said he did not want "any bloody solicitors because they tell the kids not to
say anything".
The Department had to think clearly about the reasons for involvement in the
interviews. If you look at the problem from the point of view of a parent
it is obvious that where such serious charges as murder were being talked about
one would want a solicitor present to make sure that the questioning was
reasonable. Obviously the police needed to find out what had happened but
cqually obviously this investigation should be carried out correctly and undue
pressure not put on young people without proper safeguards.
It seems to me from this. experience that in such serious circumstances juveniles
should have immediate access to legal representation.
This would ensure that the questioning was done appropriately having regard..
to the young persons age and his social and educational maturity. This is
particularly so where the young person is at special school. for example for
educationally sub-normal children.
The other point is that the Social Services Department needs to have
unambiguous guidelines for the involvement of staff in police interviews of
juveniles. These must define how far this should be an active role. The guidelines
should be discussed with the police. At least one young person claims that the
police put pressure on him outside the formal interview, to admit some involvement
in the murder of the policeman.