REPORT FOR CHAIR OF SOCIAL SERVICES
LONDON BOROUGH OF HARINGEY
SOCIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT
JUVENILES AND THE POLICE AFTER BROADWATER FARM RIOTS
The purpose of this report is to raise some of the issues and concerns of the
Social Services Department which have come as a result of the treatment of
juveniles by the police after the Broadwater Farm riots.
These comments need to be seen in the context of the Departments responsibilities
for the welfare of young people. I am not in a position to judge whether the
actions of the police were justifiable or not in a legal sense.
The Department has two main concerns. Firstly the treatment of the young.
people as human beings and secondly the attitude of the police to the
questioning process.
Young people from 12 years old upwards were being held in police custody for
72 hours before being brought to the Court. In one instance where the boy was in.
care already, the social worker had to insist that reasonable washing facilities
were made available after the boy had been held for 24 hours. This boy was a
slow leamer in educational terms and was eventually charged after being in
custody with burglary and offensive weapons NOT murder.
One 12 year old boy was detained for 36 hours before being released.
He was picked up by the police at 8.30 in the morning but was not interviewed,
so far as we know, till 4.30 that afternoon. The social worker understood that
the offence. the boy was supposed to have committed was stealing some Mars Bars
but the majority of the questioning was concerned with who he had been with
and who he had seen on the night of the riots.
One 14 year old boy was held for 72 hours plus 2 police remands of 24 hours
a total of 5 days in police custody. He was eventually charged with murder.
One 13 year old boy having been in police. custody for 55 hours without seeing
his family or a solicitor was due to be charged with murder. When the duty
social worker arrived at the special Court she found the boy wrapped in a
blanket over some kind of paper garment with no shoes on.
His mother gave
him clothes just before his actual appearance in Court. At least one other
boy was wearing paper clothes and had no shoes. One boy wore a pair of
enormous mens trousers and large shirt. One family said they had all the
childrens clothes removed by the police.
1..