year old was picked up by the police at 7.15 am.
One 16
solicitor were denied access to him until 1.30.p.m.
His mother and
A number of points arise at this stage:-
1.
The Department believes it is not in the spirit of the childrens
legislation for young people to be kept in police custody for up to 5 days.
Indeed I believe that juveniles should not be held for more than 24 hours
A number of the young people involved
before being brought before a Court.
had no previous offences.
2. As the police are allowed to hold juveniles for periods of more than 24
hours then the police station should be properly equipped and the personal
needs of the young people properly catered for.
3. Accepting
Boys of
that the police needed to remove clothes for forensic tests,
A quick call to the
there was no need for their clothes not to be replaced.
Social Services Department or the parent would have achieved this.
this age dressed in paper clothes, with no shoes are reminiscent of a century
Again many of them had no previous offences and of course the charges.
ago.
against them had not been heard fully.
4. While the police are allowed to hold juveniles then their parents should
have access to them within 24 hours. Clearly the police would be able to
control what went on during that access but at least it would enable the
In one case a 13 year old was in
young person and parent to see each other.
great distress in Court as he believed his 12 year old brother had been
beaten by the police. Subsequently his mother told a social worker that her
Again one has to bear in mind that some of the
son had received a black eye.
offences for which these young people were picked up were not serious and
not proven.
The troubled relationship between the Social Services Department and the police
over interviewing obviously has major implications for the young person.
As the 2 weeks after the riot went by, the attitude of the Department became
firmer so that we are at present operating a policy that social workers should
not be present as the responsible adult during questioning unless there is a
solicitor present.
One 13 year
The kind of situation that led us to this position is as follows.
old white boy was due to be questioned by the police on Friday 11th October.
He said
The social worker was present and the interview lasted from 5.50 pm till 9.30 pr
The social worker was questioned as to his role.
with short breaks.
it would be to make sure the boy was properly looked after, the length of the
interview was reasonable and the style of questioning was acceptable.
1
i