HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A 0AA
Meeting with the Adams family and Bernie Grant M.P.
Wednesday 22 May 1991
Present: Bernie
Bernie Grant M.P., Ros Howells, Audrey Adams, Richard
Adams, Angela Haynes.
Feeling that there had been a misunderstanding of his position and
of the role that he could play in the Rolan Adams campaign which
had led to his being unfairly criticised, Bernie opened the
meeting by clarifying the fact that as the M.P. for Tottenham,
elected by the people of Tottenham he is, first and foremost,
accountable to them alone thus dealing with events which occur
within his constituency must be his priority.
However, as a Black M.P., he is also concerned about the condition
of Black people both nationally and internationally, and he does
his best within his limits of time, resources, funding and
staffing, to open his door to issues concerning all Black people.
The dichotomy of this dual position leads to a major problem:
having invited Black people to come to him he is approached to
get involved in every Black issue, regardless of where the problem
has occurred, and only having one and a half people for his staff,
and being only one man it is impossible for him. to get personally
involved with everything.
The real goal should be to pressurise the 646 white M.P.s who
ought to be representing their black constituents' interests but
are not, such as John Cartwright M.P. Bernie stated that he would
be willing and able to raise issues in Parliament, and to advise
people on how to get their M.P.s to do their job. After having
written to the Home Secretary, with Tony Banks Bernie will
approach the Kenneth Baker and Roy Hattersley (his Shadow
equivalent) in order to get the British National Party 'Rights for
whites' march planned for Saturday May 25 banned.
Audrey Adams said that in their previous approaches to John
Cartwright, their M.P., they had been fobbed off with evasive
answers and thus had come up against a total block. He told the
family that he had attempted to raise the matter several times
in the form of Parliamentary questions but had been unsuccessful
since there were so many other M.P.s vying for a limited amount
of time in which to raise 100s of different issues.
Bernie felt that this excuse was pathetic and pointed out several
ways in which an M.P. could raise an issue in the Commons:
Standing Order 20 could be used to raise the matter on the day, an
M.P. could put a question to the Home Secretary who has questions
every two weeks%;B there could be an adjournment debate which would
allow him 45 minutes to debate the issue; he could put down an
early day motion about the situation in Greenwich.