FOREWORD
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA
Nothing has been more damaging to the relationship between the Police and the Black
community than the ill judged use of Stop & Search powers. For young black men in
particular, the humiliating experience of being repeatedly stopped and searched is a fact
of life, in some parts of London at least. It is hardly surprising that those on the receiving
end of this treatment should develop hostile attitudes towards the Police. The right to walk
the streets freely is a fundamental one, and one that is quite rightly jealously guarded.
I have never argued that the Police should not have the power to stop and search, when
they have real cause to suspect criminal activity. What I have argued however, in
Parliament and elsewhere, is that the unnecessary use of Stop & Search powers has now
become so extensive as to amount to an abuse of civil rights, and to a means of harassment
of the black community in particular. The figures produced in late 1994 in answer to my
Parliamentary question, showing huge growth in the use of Stop & Search powers, and
their disproportionate use against Black people, did no more than confirm what the
community already knew.
This report examines the project launched in Tottenham in the wake of the 1994 figures.
Its aim was to seek ways of increasing understanding about the use of Stop & Search, by
both the officers who use these powers on the one hand, and by the community on the
other. Those senior Police officers who facilitated this project, and who understand the
importance of seeking solutions to this complex problem, are to be congratulated.
However, as the Report amply demonstrates, this attitude is not shared by all Police
officers. There remain entrenched views, some of which are blatantly racist, and a
resistance to change of any kind in the use of Stop & Search. Of significance is the fact that
the vast majority of the officers interviewed do not live in the area, are not from our
community, have little knowledge of it, and are not accountable to it.
The precise impact of the leaflet project is arguable, although it is gratifying to see that the
numbers of Stop and Search incidents fell dramatically during the period of the project -
without any noticeable effects on crime clear-up rates. As the report notes, this may well
due to the cessation in Tottenham of the abominable practice of using Stop & Search
incidents as a performance indicator, for internal Police management purposes. In itself this
must be welcomed, but should be extended nationwide.
What is abundantly obvious is that the work on monitoring Stop & Search activities must
continue, and that discussions with the community must be ongoing. The price of not doing
so may well be too great to contemplate, and I hope that this report will be the start,
rather than the end, of our efforts to address a problem which has been a running sore for
far too long.
BERNIE GRANT M.P.