₤2000vard 29.7.90
୧୯୮୩ ୦୮
12 JUL 1990
THE
YES
TOTTENHAM
THREE
FAMILIES CAMPAIGN.
247a, West Green Road,
London N15 5ED.
Bernie Grant MP,
House of Commons
London SW1A OAA
Dear Bernie Grant MP,
ST
10th July 1990
We are writing to you as the families of Winston Silcott, Mark Braithwaite
and Engin Raghip to let you know that we will shortly be announcing the
formation of the Tottenham Three Families Campaign.
The Families Campaign made up of the families, their lawyers and
supporters will have as its sole aim the release and exoneration of the
Tottenham Three.
Over the past three years, we the families have struggled to get justice
for our loved ones under the banner and the constitution of the Broadwater
Farm Defence Campaign. The public meetings, pickets etc. organised by the
Campaign have been invaluable in placing the issue of this injustice on the
public agenda.
However, the Defence Campaign remains very much a community organisation;
its agenda dictated by the needs and hopes of the local people. While we
accept that it is the role of the Defence Campaign to tackle issues such as
police harrassment, operation Kingfisher etc., we feel very deeply that a
campaign with an aim as important as the release of these three innocent
men needs to have its own identity in a national form.
It is for this reason that we have taken the decision to form the Families
Campaign. In the past, you have been one of those whose support we and the
prisoners have welcomed and been grateful for, and it is for this reason
that we have written to you.
The Committee will be an independent and non-funded body. If our campaign
is to keep up the very considerable momentum which it has achieved, we
desperately require funds so that we can establish an office, continue to
lobby parliament and the media effectively, and build up a nationwide
network of supporters.
We therefore urge you in the strongest possible terms to make an immediate
donation to the campaign. Please make all cheques payable to the Tottenham
Three Families Campaign. We also plan to publish a list of sponsors of the
campaign. We hope that - if it is appropriate you will agree to place
your name, or that of your organisation, on this list.
If you have any questions about the Campaign please call our office (081-
809-6483) or get in touch with us via Sharon (081-888-1714) or Shaun (081-
985-6140). We look forward to hearing from you soon and welcome your full
support in the future.
Yours Sincerely,
6 Raghip
Chair, Tottenham Three Families Campaign.