Fear of making acquittals in the heightened atmosphere of racism
and disinformation whipped by sections of the media undoubtedly
created pressure on the jury and judge to convict the Tottenham
Three. Imagine the outrage that would have been unleashed against
both judge and jury if the Three had been found not guilty. The
license enjoyed by powerful and unaccountable sections of the media
to intervene in major criminal cases must be restricted. ed.
Racism of the criminal justice system
PC Blakelock's killing was widely portrayed by the media and
politicians as a 'black crime'. An undifferentiated mass of evil
'black criminals' was portrayed as
as being responsible for this
crime, and for many others, gave the police licence to abuse their
powers in pursuit of convictions of black suspects. When a
particular community is singled out as communally 'guilty' of a
crime, the innocent are always likely to suffer.
Black people suffer disproportionately from the abuses allowed
under the present criminal justice system.
Police try to evade future ESDA tests
An ESDA test shows the impressions made upon a page of paper by
writing on pages which were on top of it in a particular notepad.
Had police taken the simple step of tearing off each page of the
pad and placing it on a table top when writing, the ESDA test
commissioned by the defence would not have shown Silcott's
'statement' to be bogus.
The Metropolitan Police have now issued hard plastic sheets to be
inserted between the sheets of the pads used in interviews to
ensure that no tell-tale impressions are left on the sheet below.
This simple procedure means that police can now avoid false
statements being exposed with ESDA.
Tottenham Three
-
the tip of an iceberg
The Tottenham Three have now endured over half a decade in prison
for a crime they did not commit. Their young lives and the lives of
their families an friends have been profoundly disrupted. If their
convictions are quashed in the Court of Appeal, it will still take
them many years to recover from the wrongs to which they have been
subjected.
The prisons are full of people who have been subject to miscarriage
of justice. Many of these do not have high profile, well organised
campaigns to fight for their rights. Action must be taken to ensure
that these people can have their cases reviewed
reviewed with speed and
fairness.
Action must also be taken to ensure hat there are no more Tottenham
Threes, Birmingham Sixes, or Guildford Fours. The Tottenham Three.
case shows that the law on the use of uncorroborated evidence must
be changed as soon as possible. This cannot wait for the Royal
Commission On Criminal Justice to make its recommendations.
Campaigners for the Tottenham Three have laboured for many years in
isolation, trying to bring to public attention the serious
10