Mark Braithwaite
on the records
he results be included in the report. The
A dossier of new evidence about Braithwaite's case was presented to
the Home Office in December, 1990. quy
Defence lawyers produced medical evidence that Braithwaite was an
acute claustrophobic. Mark said that he suffered panic attacks
while confined in his police cell. This is born out by the custody
record showing he complained of claustrophobia during his
interrogation. According to expert witnesses this makes his
statements unreliable and means they cannot be considered a safe
basis for conviction.
Engin Raghip
to
New evidence about Raghip was submitted to the Home Office in May,
1990. It concerned his psychological state under interrogation and
the reliability of the statements he signed while in police
custody.ons for the sixt
Lenced for
ences during the Br
Experts witnesses have concluded that Raghip is functionally
illiterate, of borderline sub-normal IQ and most importantly
abnormally suggestible and compliant when faced with authority.
Engin Raghip was granted leave to appeal earlier the year.
Winston Silcott
On 13th July, 1991 lawyers acting for Winston Silcott delivered a
dossier of new evidence to Home Secretary Kenneth Baker. The new
evidence arose from a new examination (commissioned by the defence
lawyers and relatives) of the original notes of the police
interviews with Silcott. The examination was conducted by
independent experts using electrostatic document analysis (the ESDA
test). ESDA is the same technique which revealed that statements by
some of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six had been tampered
with.
motion on
When Silcott's 'statement' was obtained from the police by the
independent experts, it was found that the last page of the seven-
page statement had disappeared. The statement had been locked in a
repository guarded by police; the Director of Public Prosecutions
had assured MPs and Silcott's lawyers that all important documents
would be kept safe. The missing page has still not come to light.
icted
Farm
Impact of the ESDA test evidence
miscarri
of justice.
The ESDA tests provided evidence that the notes of Silcott's
'statement' produced by police at the trial were neither complete
nor contemporaneous with the interviews they purported to record.
The incriminating replies to police questions in the final
interview, the only evidence against Silcott, are shown by the
tests to have been added after the original record was made. The
top forensic scientist who carried out the tests described the
result as "absolutely clear cut".
only
on the basis of uncorroborated cont
On the 25th of July, 1991, the Home Secretary asked the
Metropolitan Police for a report on the scientists' findings. He
asked that the police investigation include an examination of all
records of interviews with Winston Silcott. He also asked that ESDA
5