that it must forget Hill's statement - but was not given any of the
reasons why it should do so.
Fon
Bra
The 'fitting up' of Winston Silcott
other.
Even
ack on Blakelock
was
with
The Tottenham Three case has centred upon the figure of Winston
Silcott, described by the prosecution as the riot's "ringleader"
and by Justice Hodgson. as
"vicious and evil". The police made
enormous efforts to get others to implicate Silcott. He has been
portrayed consistently (and effectively) as a black 'monster'
figure by a racist media and police in order to legitimate what has
become known one of the most clear-cut cases of human rights abuse
in the United Kingdom (see Amnesty International report, enclosed).
The recent exposure of the fabricated nature of the 'evidence'
against Silcott (see below) has been the final element in the now-
complete discrediting of the Tottenham Three convictions.
When the Broadwater Farm disturbances took place in October 1985,
Silcott was remanded on bail after being charged with an unrelated
killing. He was arrested in connection with the Blakelock killing
when he reported to Tottenham police station six days after the
disturbances to fulfil his conditions of bail. Later, while
awaiting trial for the Blakelock killing, Silcott was convicted of
the murder of Antony Smith, a North London boxer, in a knife fight
at a party.
lice and Cri
dence Act
No Safeguard
After Hodgson ruled the evidence of the juveniles inadmissible, the
only evidence left against Silcott was the 'interview' he never
signed. Silcott's replies to questioning, the prosecution claimed,
demonstrated a "guilty posture". This
"guilty posture". This 'interview' was the only
evidence offered against Silcott and formed the sole basis of his
conviction for the Blakelock killing.
Evidence Act
ry Kenneth Baker
(PACE) which
Defence counsel advised Silcott not to take the stand to challenge
the police testimony in order to avoid reference to his previous
convictions. However, once the three men were convicted the press
and media used his previous criminal record as 'evidence' of his
guilt.
(Guardian
The Raghip and Braithwaite convictions
In Engin Raghip's case the substance of the allegations, to which
he eventually assented in the statement he signed, was that he had
been on the edge of the crowd attacking the police officer, but had
been unable to get in to the midst of the fray. Raghip was thus
convicted on the basis of the 'joint enterprise' argument
despite the British government's condemnation of the use of
use of the
identical argument of 'common purpose' in the Sharpeville Six trial
in South Africa. Since the trial, it has emerged that Raghip is of
borderline sub-normal IQ, functionally illiterate and abnormally
suggestible.
Mark Braithwaite eventually told police that he had struck an
officer with an iron bar. The description of the officer in the
statement which he gave does not fit Blakelock, and there were no
wounds on the latter's body corresponding with the blows that Mark
'confessed' to striking. Since the trial it has been shown that
Mark suffers from severe claustrophobia.
3