made a 52 page confession in which he identified 25 individuals as
participating in the riot. He was proved by
proved by the testimony of a
dozen independent witnesses to have been in Slough at the time of
the disturbances in Tottenham.
Psychological studies show that, when isolated in a cell and
subjected to questioning by experienced interrogators, only the
exceptional person does not make a 'confession'. Suspects often
neither know nor understand their rights. They currently have to
'opt in' to legal representation. Substantial changes in law are
necessary to ensure suspects get proper access to legal
representation and advice and to safeguard them against the use of
duress and inhuman treatment during interrogation.
justice
Lack of police accountability
of
sed
Chief Inspector Melvin was reprimanded by the Police Complaints
Authority (PCA) for the treatment of Jason Hill, whose case was
overturned on appeal (see above). Yet no police officer has ever
been subject to prosecution or discipline for any of the extensive
human rights abuses committed during the Broadwater Farm
investigation. The PCA report into the numerous complaints against
the police for actions taken during that investigation remains
unpublished. Civil damages have been awarded in some cases and
others are pending.ded
The Tottenham Three case shows how the secretive procedures of the
PCA are inadequate in dealing with police abuses. In this case one
of the leading police officers in the country appears to have
manufactured evidence and committed perjury. It is vital that an
independent mechanism with adequate powers is established to deal
with complaints against the police.
Though
aud
The inadequacy of the 'new evidence' rule
the grain
The Home Secretary has powers to refer to the Court of Appeal any
case dealt with upon indictment. In practice the Home Secretary
does not do so 'unless there has come to light some new evidence or
other consideration of substance which has not already been before
the courts'.
of the
Hence prisoners are dependant upon dedicated defence lawyers (of
which there are few) to come up with new evidence. This means
defendants convicted on the basis of weak evidence must in effect
conduct a new investigation and secure 'new evidence' in order to
get another hearing to challenge their convictions, which were
clearly 'unsafe' to begin with.
This is exactly happened to the Tottenham Three. This is an unfair
burden to place on defendants and obstructs the proper review by
the courts of inadequate evidence. The grounds upon which
defendants can appeal clearly need to be broadened.
When the
Independent Judicial Tribunal
calling upon
The upper echelons of the judiciary have proven themselves hostile
to reviewing the many recently-exposed 'miscarriages of justice',
despite long-standing and overwhelming evidence indicating
prisoners' innocence. They remain reluctant correct past mistakes.
8