tests be carried out on the records of
of interviews with Mark
Braithwaite and that the results be included in the report. The
Metropolitan Police asked Essex Police Assistant Chief Constable
Geoffrey Markham to carry out the inquiry.
On 26th September Markham confirmed the validity of the forensic
tests to the Home Secretary. Kenneth Baker immediately referred the
cases of Winston Silcott and Mark Braithwaite back to the Court of
Appeal (Raghip's had already been referred back, see above).
The tests carried out on the police records in Braithwaite's case
showed no grounds for disputing them. The Home Secretary decided to
refer Braithwaite back to the Court of Appeal because he had been
denied access to a solicitor by police following his arrest.
-
may be
The permission for Braithwaite to appeal has been granted on the
basis that his statements - made without legal advice
inadmissible in court. Any ruling in
in his case will have
implications for the sixty other cases of people sentenced for
offences during the Broadwater Farm disturbances who were also
denied access to solicitors.
Labour Party Conference Support
Crown
Lion
Lo
about
The Labour Party Conference held in Brighton in October 1991 passed
unanimously Composite 40 on Law and Criminal Justice which states
that:
"the next Labour government... [must]
[must] act without delay to end
convictions on the basis of uncorroborated evidence, and to
establish an independent review body with wide investigatory powers
to undertake inquiries into cases of doubtful convictions...the
next labour government [must act] to ensure that...any restrictions
on a suspect's right of access to legal advice during custody are
removed."
The following motion on the Tottenham Three was also
unanimously:
was also passed
were
"In the wake of the release of the Guildford Four and the
Birmingham Six, innocent people sentenced to life imprisonment for
crimes they do not commit, Conference notes with increasing concern
the mounting evidence which suggests that the Tottenham Three,
Engin Raghip, Mark Braithwaite and Winston Silcott, convicted of
murder following
following the civil
civil disturbances on Broadwater Farm in
October 1985, have also been victims of a miscarriage of justice.
Conference therefore calls upon the Home Secretary to immediately
institute an open and independent enquiry into events and
allegations which surround the convictions of the Tottenham Three
and to refer their cases back to the Court of Appeal as a matter of
urgency.
were
"Conference notes that the cases of the Tottenham Three, as with
the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six, convictions were made only
on the basis of uncorroborated confessional evidence obtained under
police interrogation and later withdrawn by the defendants
concerned. Conference believes that convictions should not be made
in such cases and calls upon the next Labour government to take
urgent steps to ensure that such evidence is inadmissible in
6