future. 2 page coal
on in
ntified 25 Individuals as
ipating in the
"Conference supports the efforts of the Tottenham Three Families
Campaign to secure the acquittal of the three imprisoned men and
calls on the National Executive Committee and the party's Home
Affairs spokespersons in Parliament to meet and co-ordinate
activities with representatives of the campaign. "
Detective Chief Superintendent Graham Melvin
The interrogation of Winston Silcott was conducted by Detective
Chief Superintendent Graham Melvin, the officer who supervised the
whole Broadwater Farm investigation, and Detective Inspector
Maxwell Dingle.
Chief Superintendent Melvin, who was head of the Scotland Yard
Serious Crime Squad, stated under oath at the Blakelock trial in
March 1987 that the notes of Silcott's interview were a complete
and contemporaneous record.
Yet no
en subject to prosecution or iscipline for any
Melvin, now head of the International and Organised Crime Squad,
has now been suspended from duty. The police have been asked to
prepare a further report for the Crown Prosecution Service about
the officer's handling of the case. Melvin was 'severely
reprimanded' in disciplinary proceedings by the Police Complaints
Authority in September 1990 for the treatment of Jason Hill while
in detention. No other action was taken against him. In July 1991
this was confirmed by the Home Secretary.
THE MAIN ISSUES
tent
and
Here is a summary of how the key issues raised in the Tottenham
Three cases impinge upon the operation of
operation of the criminal justice
system.dequacy of
Convictions only on the basis of uncorroborated confessions
In
This was the only basis
basis on which the men were convicted.
Silcott's case not even this level of 'evidence' was produced. It
is common police
police practice to
to 'fit' the 'likely suspects' to a
particular crime. The Tottenham Three case is the tip of an iceberg
in this respect. Police will only change their practice if the
system within which they operate is changed.
ted on the
weak evidence
The Tottenham Three case shows that the law must be changed
immediately to ensure that convictions cannot be obtained purely on
the basis of self-incriminating confessions.
Suspects' Rights
to the
fendants and
None of the men was allowed access to legal advice while they were
being interrogated. Silcott and Braithwaite both asked
asked for
for a
solicitor and Raghip was denied one even after a magistrate ordered
he should have access to one. Of all the suspects charged in the
Blakelock murder only the one (Juvenile 'A') who had access to a
lawyer did not 'confess'.
wing the
Howard Kerr, a youth with severe learning difficulties, was also
charged in connection with the Broadwater Farm disturbances. He
7