Lord Lane refused the Tottenham Three 'leave to appeal' three years
ago. With
With regard to Winston Silcott he said that the Crown
Prosecution did not even need to make a submission - so convinced
was he of Silcott's guilt. He said that Silcott's words amounted to
an admission and represented a 'solid' basis for the conviction.
The new ESDA evidence on Silcott's
Silcott's statement once again focuses
attention on the role of Lord Lane and the Law Lords who have used
every means at their disposal to maintain the incarceration of
wrongly convicted individuals.
killing
and
There is a need for an independent judicial tribunal, with full
investigative powers, to deal with cases where a 'miscarriage of
justice' is alleged. This vital safeguard needs to be introduced
into the criminal justice system to protect the innocent and the
integrity of all convictions. All appeals should be heard by a
jury, not as at present only by judges.
The role of the media in 'controversial cases'
nder the
the
The media has consistently played an extremely negative role in
influencing the public atmosphere surrounding 'high profile'
trials, often with political implications, in which there is
considerable concern in society that the perpetrators of particular
offenses are apprehended and convicted.
Had polica aken the simple step of tearing off each page of the
The Broadwater Farm disturbances and the Tottenham Three case were
the occasions for sensationalist and racist media coverage clearly
undermining the defendants' chances of receiving a fair trial. It
has also made it more difficult to secure any review of the cases
in subsequent years.
the sheet
to be
Lews to
Though the 'quality press' and broadcast media have recently given.
the cases objective and balanced coverage they displayed little
inclination to 'go against the grain' and question the validity of
the convictions at the time when they occurred. The change in
public atmosphere brought about by the release of the Guildford
Four and the Birmingham Six and the linked growing pressure for
reform of the criminal justice system has been largely responsible
for improving coverage of the Tottenham Three case. and the
profoundly disrupted.
Amongst the tabloid press coverage which causes most concern were
reports in The Sun. recover from the wrongs to
subjected
On the eighth day of the Blakelock trial The Sun published a
picture of Winston Silcott with the caption, 'First picture in
Machete Death Case'. This photo was taken by police on the night of
Silcott's arrest after he had been dragged from his cell and made.
to stand against a wall. The photo was then 'leaked' to the press
by police during the trial. No action has ever been taken against
press or police over this incident.
Action must
When the new ESDA test evidence was submitted in July, Tory MP for
Coventry South John Butcher tabled an early day motion calling upon
MPS to 'retain sympathy for the victims of crimes perpetrated by
Winston Silcott.' This EDM reproduced in full a partly fictional
list of offences alleged to have been committed by Silcott which
had appeared in 'The Sun' the previous day.
for many years in
the
on.
trying
public
90