It has also emerged that Justice Hodgson, in a secret report to the
then Home Secretary, expressed serious doubts about the safety of
Braithwaite's conviction. Even if Braithwaite's confession was
freely made and accurately recorded, it was not consistent with
other accounts of the attack on Blakelock.
The police investigation and human rights abuses
to
Police in London are responsible for a series of serious human
rights abuses, procedural irregularities and legal failings before,
during and after the Broadwater Farm disturbances.
No action has ever been taken against the police officers who
carried out an illegal search of the house of Mrs Cynthia Jarrett
during which she died in circumstances which have never been
properly investigated. It was this incident which precipitated the
disturbances.
the
The
and
above has been documented by several independent
investigations, including the Amnesty Report, Burnham Report and
Gifford Enquiry (see Tottenham Three Families Campaign Information
Pack, enclosed, for details). These reports should be studied by
anyone wishing to acquaint themselves fully with the background
surrounding these cases.
Police and Criminal Evidence Act No Safequard
The argument pursued by the government and police with regard to
many unjust convictions now coming to light (Birmingham Six,
Guildford Four, Judith Ward, Maguires, Bridgewater Four) is that
these 'miscarriages of justice' could no longer occur because of
procedures introduced under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act
(PACE) which became law in 1986. When Home Secretary Kenneth Baker
referred Silcott and Braithwaite back the appeal court he told the
media that the Broadwater Three interviews were conducted before
present codes of police practice were in force and tape recording
became commonplace. Repetition of recently exposed miscarriages, he
claimed, "therefore seems unlikely in future". (Guardian 27/9/91)
This is not the case.
PACE was in force during the investigation
the investigation into the Blakelock
murder. When Silcott and Raghip were arrested a 'dry run' of PACE
was being conducted in Tottenham. Braithwaite was arrested after
1st January 1986, when PACE became law. The PACE Codes of Practice
on the treatment of suspects are not statutory. Moreover, PACE
allows statements obtained under breaches of the Codes of Practice
to be used in evidence in court. It is up to the trial judge to
decide whether to admit such evidence.
LATEST DEVELOPMENTS
be
by
The three men have been granted 'leave to appeal' to the Court of
Appeal, not by the judiciary, but by the Home Secretary on the
basis of new evidence.
the
asked
et th
the
de an examination of 11
records of interviews with Winston Silcott, Me also asked that ESDA
4