HOW THE CONVICTIONS WERE OBTAINED
The 'confessions' of the Tottenham Three
The incriminating statements were obtained whilst the men were held
incommunicado, refused access to legal representation and subject
to severe duress during interrogation.
and
ce made
The men were questioned repeatedly by night and day for up to three
days. They were refused solicitors. Relatives were not informed
that the three were being held. They were stripped, refused food
and not allowed to wash. There was not a single item of forensic,
physical or photographic evidence against them.
In the end Raghip and Braithwaite signed statements admitting their
guilt. Raghip is illiterate and experts have confirmed that he has
an intellectual
age
of nine. Braithwaite suffers from
claustrophobia and medical experts assert he would have admitted to
anything to get out of his cell.
ling. No Mas arrested in connection ach
Silcott was questioned for three days by Chief Superintendent
Melvin, the officer in charge of the investigation. At the trial a
document was produced by the prosecution which it alleged was an
account of a police interview with Silcott; along with other
incriminating replies to police questions, Silcott was alleged to
have said: "You ain't got enough evidence. Those kids will never go
to court. You wait and see. Nobody else will talk to you. You can't
keep me away from them." Silcott never signed this 'statement' and
has always denied saying any of these things. It was the only
evidence produced against him at the trial.
The treatment of the juveniles
At the Blakelock trial three juveniles were also charged with the
killing. Two had made self-incriminating confessions of
involvement. The one juvenile ('A') who was able to obtain legal.
advice was also the only defendant whose prosecution did not rest
solely on self-incriminating statements made to police. The witness
whose testimony formed the sole basis of the murder charge against
'A' collapsed under cross examination. He admitted that his
evidence had been "dotted with lies" and that the police had given
him money, got him a job, bought him clothes and provided him with
a place to live.
"
crowd attacking the po
One of the juveniles, thirteen year old Jason Hill, was kept in a
police cell for three days and interrogated wearing only a blanket
and his underpants. The claim made in Jason Hill's statement - that
Silcott and the mob wanted to "sever [Blakelock's] head and stick
it on a pole
was used in the prosecution's opening address at
the trial and given wide publicity in the popular press.normal)
The trial judge, Mr Justice Hodgson, dismissed the cases against
the three juveniles and ruled their statements inadmissible because
of the extent to which police had breached procedures laid down in
the legislation on the detention and treatment of juveniles.
Hodgson was highly critical of the police treatment of Jason Hill,
calling it "burdensome, harsh, wrong and unjust" and described the
juvenile's confession as "fantasy and make-believe". Unfortunately,
this ruling was made in the absence of the jury which was then told
2