ETHIOPIAN WORLD FEDERATION INC.
DE
RESEARCH AND REPATRIATION COMMITTEE.
at pissed bus
Draft Strategy Paper on Reparations & Repatriation.
28 St. Agness Place
WAO Kennington, Oval
London SE11 4BE
Tel: 071-735 0905
SOA eddon bas
18th November 1993.
Greetings in the name of the Ethiopian World Federation Inc.
Our Constitution was established during the Italian Ethiopian war
of 1935 - '41. In order to effect Unity on this subject of
Reparation & Repatriation, we are pleased to outline the way
forward for the Black Peoples of the World.
pasunod
Reparation... The Question of the wrongs done to the African
nation by the European Colonial Powers and the Goverment of the
United States of America, have been brought to the top of the
agenda by the Chairman of the Organisation of African Unity in
1991.
Idisso e os slojado
-
On the 4th August 1992, the EWF Inc was requested to present a
Position Paper on Repatriation to the 0.A.U.
-
On April 27th 29th 1993, the Abuja Proclamation sponsored by the
0.A.U calls upon Heads of States and Goverments in Africa and the
diasopra itself to set up National Committees for the purpose of
studying the damaged Black experience, disseminating information
and encouraging educational courses on the impact of enslavement,
colonization and neo-colonialism on the present day Africa and its
diaspora.
Convinced that the claim for Reparations is well grounded in
International Law.
In this traumatic experience of our people from the Continent of
Africa, today 500 years later, such experiences both physically,
physcologically, mentally and spiritually are dispossed.
If the Japanese who were imprisoned in the U.S during the
II World War can be given Reparations, due to the inhuman manner
by which they were treated by the U.S Goverment and equallu the
'Jews' of the state of Israel who claim 6 million of their peoples
perished at the hands of Hitler and his facist regime - are still
today being compensated by Germany for these atrocities that
were committed on the said people with monies that is assisting
the state of Israel in the name of Reparation. It is therefore
inadmissable and justifiable that the Africans who lost 100 million
of our people in the transition from the Continent to the
Americas and equally there descendants who managed to survive this
holocaust be compensated for this brutal and ihuman destruction
of the Continent and its peoples, through Reparations & Repatriation.
Established August 25th 1937 By Dr. Malaku E. Bayen