We are not here talking about money alone, but the legacy of
enslavement and colonialism on us and on the Caribbean and
Africa. The legacy of the past, for which there has been not so
much as an apology from Britain, is in the continued economic
and the
dependency,
deficit left
democratic
by British
Neither are we confining ourselves to a distant
Imperialism. Neither are
history but one that lives on in the attitudes and responses to
black people of African origin in Britain.
80 101 Busol
It may prove easier for the British Government to agree to make
payment for slavery and colonialism than it will be to get an
apology because in many quarters of British society the view that
they did us a favour"
we as Africans are inferior and that
still runs deep within the culture and fabric of Britain.
"
032
то
That is why we must mount a massive and all embracing campaign
for reparations because to do so strikes at the very heart of
racist mythology. We will no longer be at the receiving end of
paltry handouts, what we demand is justice and repair for real
damage inflicted. This is a campaign to lift the heads and the
spirits of all African peoples in which we take the initiative.
The legal precedents already exist. We have seen the United
Nations demand and obtain reparations from Iraq for it's invasion
of Kuwait, and before that we saw the Federal Republic of Germany
pay reparations to Jews who suffered at the hands of the Nazis.
There already exists a body to spearhead the campaign in Britain,
but what is now
linked to the Organisation of African Unity
required is that this campaign is grounded firmly within the
grass-roots African communities in Britain.
That is why we have organised this first conference for
activists. It will not have reached everyone, but it is our hope
that by organising a working conference for a small number we
will have a well informed debate within our wider community.
10
If we had reliable means of communicating with each other it
would not be necessary to exclude anyone at this formative stage,
but we are aware that there is currently much misunderstanding
about what reparations are and what it could mean. So by having
a small gathering to share information we may have the basis for
that wider debate. blow dw ynom
bas bi
D
The case for reparations that needs to be developed must consider
all aspects of the case. We as a planning group do not intend to
dictate to our community exactly what shape the case should take,
that is a matter for the whole community to determine. That is
why we have organised workshops to explore the range of options.
open to us.
no al
To mi exs dow to
From our focused and informed discussions we will be able to go
back to our existing organisations or set up new ones to spread
the word within our communities and add to the campaign outside
it.
We are convinced that the campaign for reparations is the means
to address racism in Britain and elsewhere against people of
African origin. By researching and documenting the case of the
systematic exploitation and appropriation of Africa and Africans
we provide for ourselves an argument that is about justice and
equity. It is an issue that goes to the core of racism. What we
will show by our campaign is that the ways that we have been
viewed as Africans is fundamental wrong. But we will not be
asking for charity or tolerance, we are demanding justice. This
for once puts us on the offensive rather than the defensive.
The ends we
we seek of financial compensation for slavery and
colonialism are important, but we must also see the means by
which we achieve those ends as equally important.
This must be a campaign that involves and includes all people of
African origin, it will not be undertaken by any self-appointed
leaders. Democracy and participation must be the methods of our
actions. Our past attempts to forge a united movement have
foundered when we have made unreasonable demands on those who
assume leadership positions. This time therefore we will need to
make formal demands and be explicit about them so that we
hold elected leaders to account.
This conference is part of an explicit process of involvement
for all Africans. Starting here, we have knowledge, and we
recognise that knowledge is power. We must share our knowledge.
and we must seek more. We must share our skills and experience
so that together we build a movement for justice and equality
that is worthy of the name.
In the past some of us have tended towards a degree of self-
criticism which has been destructive. Whilst we must rightly
continue to look critically out our each and every action, it is
essential that we rid ourselves of the negativism that has been
the product of racism about ourselves as Africans. We are not our
own worst enemies as I heard one brother say at a recent meeting.
Our enemies are those with power who seek to deny us our
expression and our identities.
There are real differences between us, ones that have in the past
brought us dissent and disagreement. We cannot ignore the
differences nor should we but we must learn the lessons of the
past. If this movement is to be successful it must not be
dogmatic. None of us has a monopoly of what it means to be
African. Our experience within the Diaspora has demanded that we
adopt appropriate strategies for our survival. Some of us have,
especially in recent years become religious. We are Muslims,
Christians and Jews, some of us have developed religions that are
modelled upon ancient African traditions, and some of us are
deeply suspicious of all organised religion. What is clear
however is that unless we accept the pluralism of our faiths we
shall flounder as countless brother and sisters have done before
us.
2
3