approved by the Steering Committee, and that such groups must
ed affiliate to ARM (UK) if they are to be recognised.
a5. That ARM (UK) develop close working relationships with the
International Movement for reparations sponsored by the
eu Organisation for African Unity.
6. That the steering committee will be replaced by elected
representatives by no later than November 1994, and that the
steering committee and local groups will prepare the ground for
the adoption of a Constitution and structure by that date,
including the planning of the Inaugaral Annual General Meeting
of ARM (UK) open to all people of African origin.
7. That nominations for executive positions will be open only to
individuals nominated by affilitiated groups by the 31st May
1994, elections to take place at the AGM
8. That the work of the Movement in Britain will be on many
b levels including academic research, outreach within our
br communities, public speaking, letter writing etc, and that no one
mode of activity is deemed more important than any other.
9. That the movement will aim to be inclusive of all people of
African origin and will therefore try muster the support of
bo prominent African personalities such as those involved in sports
and the entertainment field as well as those who currently
describe themselves as "black British".
10. That the financing of the Movement will come primarily from
within the Movement.
11. That the Movement will be pluralist and democratic and that
we shall learn from the range of approaches to reparations which
I have been developed over the years.
Juods bas za eno remevom a oni sebi na mzola
bvod
nellA
sexps of sealed eiqmaxe roles Inmolizio
Action Plan
.noliuliano sol s
803
日
December 1993 20 xemons of noisia navip ever ow
891
Briefing for Activists
no themevom add not ada
Return to groups, spread
roots.
January 1994
ever epada air dis bas pa
prins consnii Illw sw sidiaaog
information about reparations to grass
eixem e
02eas da ov
TUO no Joaqui Jobs sved IIw themevom strid mida roW SW WOR
Series of local meetings- formal groups set up.
sop
aodaiw odw napaob
A to enoyns ebg
Establish network, probably London to coordinate information and
campaign (newsletter?). an
abnaija saor los eszme od loss to yd
February 94 bhoo ad os bean fllwi
03
II w spurt ei
spurt ei au soled de
exuper llwyll as vllsmolzen vllsool, level
Local Groups undertake local research using public records of
involvement with slavery, which Industries, factories were based
produce from the "colonies" in 17th, 18th and 19th
centuries. Are there monuments to Local white colonialists, such
as Henry Tate, Cecil Rhodes etc.
upon
March 94
Continuation of outreach and research. uboda s sla
Draft Constitution for African Reparations Movement (UK).
Constitutions for local groups
-31 Malignos ewoldwyd amBOM
BU BW DE
to all edd
28 ni viinummon napi
geb bas dabsend
8
April 94
Local Groups affiliate to ARM(UK)
May/June 94
Nominees selected for Executive Committee of ARM(UK)
September 94
Inaugural Annual General Meeting of ARM (UK)
adoption of Constitution
Election of Executive Committee
This Draft Action Plan outlines the steps we think are necessary
09