Our African origins were plural, they were diverse, and this
Movement must understand that we must develop means of accepting
our differences in the traditions
and honouring
apreceded us.
that have
In reality there are many ways that African peoples in the
Diaspora express and organise ourselves, some of these ways react
to and reflect the racism we face, some are more successful than
others. If we are to move forward as a people we are charged with
the responsibility of finding ways of negotiating those real
differences, without putting each other down or name calling. How
for example will we handle situations in which African brothers
and sisters decline to call themselves African but prefer instead
the term, black British ? If we accuse them of having a slave
mentality will we be likely to get them to take pride in their
heritage and identities ? No, we must put energy into persuading
them of our point of view rather than condemning them. If we do
benot do this we will be a movement of like-minded people but not
a movement which includes all African people.
It is important that we clarify our relation ship with people of
Asian origin because this issue will be exploited by those who
have long practised divide and rule. In organising as Africans
many of us will continue to work closely with Asian peoples
around our shared experience of racism in Britain. But we have
ea right and a duty to work on our own specific experience to the
extent that it is distinct form that of Asian people. The theft
of our peoples and our languages marks the African experience as
different from that which occurred for others. It would be a
fruitless and meaningless competition to try to measure who's
experience was the worst. It is sufficient for us to say that we
demand justice for what has happened to us and in doing so we do
not deny the justice that others many also demand.
nesd and
anded
An issue that has arisen on the speaking tour that Bernie Grant
has conducted has been what should our relationship be with white
and this is
that
question
has important
supporters,
implications at this stage of our movement. It must be addressed
here and now.
a
ed asɔne
Our movement must be by for and about African people of that
there must be no doubt or ambiguity. To succeed we must persuade
ea significant section of white British society of the justice of
our case. Not all of us will want to be engaged in that task,
many of us because of past experience will not work closely white
groups again. But others such as myself do see the need to win
the support of elements in the Labour Party, the Churches and
others with influence. This does not mean that there should be
a direct role for white people within our Movement, but it does
recognise that there will be those who have a role, one that is
It would be a
clearly outside our movement but informed by it.
grave error to seek support from white people before our African
autonomous movement is established. But equally it would be a
grave error to think we can succeed entirely on our own.
4
In the spirit of the pluralism referred to above we may have to
10hold both positions that of an African only organisation and also
03
working with
with sympathetic white people. We will not be
compromised so long as white people remain outside our movement.
If they are truly sympathetic they will understand why we must
organise this ourselves.dmmo
One of the many manifestations of the impact and legacy of racism
on African peoples are the ways that we have become so deeply
suspicious and critical of each other. It is easy to bad-mouth
another brother or sister by calling them an Uncle Tom or a
coconut, but in some ways the even more damaging aspect of our
suspicion is to assume that others are not to be trusted with the
same integrity that we ourselves possess. I am thinking here of
the suspicion that
towards black professionals, or
ed academics. It is as though they are not to be trusted because
they work in the "white man's world". Where this view exists it
A often assumes that the prevailing eurocentric ideology is
uncontested, when in reality the opposite is the case.
beth
exists
I have myself been wondering who benefits from this belief, since
Judit
it is evident that in cutting of black professionals and
bacademics from the grass roots of our communities they are less
able to serve the whole of our community. But I also know that
whatever the suspicions that exist about those working in the
"mainstream" there is a pride and a satisfaction from much of the
I work they do. For example the black social workers in the early
80's who critiqued the impact of transracial fostering and
as adoption of black children put facts where our anecdotes existed.
_
The black teachers and academics who went into the institutions
that under-valued and sought to destroy us blew the whistle on
what we knew was happening to our children.
The question that is uppermost in my mind on this artificial
divide is a strategic one. Who can we bridge the divide in a way
that brings in and strengthens the work being done by isolated
black professionals without allowing them
dominate the
Movement.
to
It is an important question because it is clear to anyone who has
looked at the history of past black struggles that we need to
conduct our campaign on a broad front. We need activists and
organisers, and we need historians and lawyers. We need research
not only into the legal case for reparations but the documentary
proof of the involvement of individuals and companies in slavery.
And in the search for this information in the towns and cities
of Britain all of our community will need to be involved. The
skilled academic researchers will need to share their knowledge
of research techniques with us so that we can go to the libraries
and companies to get the evidence we need to make our claim.
Margaret Thatcher in the early 1980's made clear her intention
to promote a black bourgeois, to some extent she may have
5