succeeded but at this juncture of our struggle we should not
gallow her achieve her purpose. By creating a strong movement for
reparations we have the means of providing support and focus to
those black people who are placed in the mainstream, so that
their energies are directed as far as possible on work that is
to the benefit of the African community.
15
The question of leadership is one that is often raised within our
communities, we have suffered in the past from self-appointed,
or worse, white appointed leaders. There should be no automatic
ɓ assumption that anyone, because of their current position will
automatically assume a leadership position within our movement.
Professionals will not automatically lead, neither will men
to automatically lead women. This must be a movement that values and
respects our different but equal contribution to the struggle.
It follows therefore that a formal and explicit means must be
adopted to select our leadership. For it is clear that we need
leadership now more than ever. But we have fallen out and down
in the past on not looking at our mechanisms. It is as though we
have relied entirely on the rightness of our cause and neglected
so to consider the means of achieving our aims. This time therefore
bwe must elect leaders and they should reflect not one view but
ee the range of views that exist within our community. They should
together compliment each others skills and attributes and they
must be made accountable to us once elected.
ede bur
we
may
It is from this process of developing a structure
bestablish ways of working which are inclusive of all, or at least
most African peoples. It will necessarily be a learning process.
for all of us. Many of us have spoken with passion about the
implication of the reparations campaign, we know that if it is
successful as we believe that it will be, it will not only
no transform those of us engaged within it, but it will transform
Africa and the Caribbean. Many of us have no doubt that we would
not be happy to see some of the corrupt and backward (ie. Western
I supported) leaders continue to misrule. And if many of us are
to go or return to Africa and the Caribbean to rebuild, we must
betake with us skills that will be of practical use. Amongst those
skills and maybe foremost amongst those skills will be our
organisational and professional qualities.
as The justice of our cause is evident, but we must turn our clarity
and unity into action. The intellectual effort of all of our
b people will be a crucial part of that campaign. For example what
A economic relationship should exist between Africa and the
Diaspora ? What would Pan-Africanism be like in practical reality
at an economic level? How do we create sustainable growth and
have the benefits of Western technology? These are profound
issues that need to be considered alongside our claim for
epreparations. We do not wished to be surprised or overwhelmed with
our success in achieving reparations by not preparing for it.
en
So the case for reparations will require skills and expertise
that few of us at present possess. If we can cast aside our
no learned suspicions of each other we will learn and share so that
ev together we may grow.
6
Jaum aquoip dua ba
de
999 phies eda yd bevoaggs
Our relationship with the press is also an issue which must be
considered now. There are many of us who are rightly cynical
about the press, even the black press, the Voice for example has
done our movement few favours. But it is also the case that many
black people especially in areas of small communities continue
to rely upon the newspapers as the only means of being in touch
bo with other black people. It is against this background that our
en relationship with publicity has to be considered.
spol bas
We need to use the media and in doing so we recognise that it
will never be accurate or honest, but use of the press must be
an means to an end and not an end in itself. The press however
inaccurate provides opportunities to argue our case to black
people who might otherwise not hear us. It is from the press that
many people contacted Bernie Grant to find more information about
the reparations issue and this a lesson to be learned by the more
purist amongst us who would refrain from using the press. Our
YA movement should not insist that everyone must use the press but
neither should it insist that none of us does so. For the build
a mass movement of African people we must reach all of them, and
to 900m
even negative publicity enables us to make contacts.
Our external relations within Britain will be of strategic
10 importance to us, they have the potential to divide us because
ad of our different approaches to achieving our goals. If we are to
succeed it is essential that we find means of holding the range
of approaches that exist within our community.
Our external relationships with Continental Africa and the
Diaspora will need to be developed so that we grow apace with
International developments. That we are placed in the heart of
the Imperialism and neo-colonialism will be of significance to
the Movement as a whole. We owe it to our brothers and sisters
in Africa and the Caribbean to play our part in this historical
Movement.
So far this campaign has attracted the support and enthusiasm of
African peoples politically active in a range of campaigns and
activities. No one means has thus far proved successful despite
the efforts of countless committed African activists so we must
move forward drawing from our past experiences of achievement
with optimism and realism.
Recommendations to be considered by Conference.
1. That the Africa Reparations Movement ARM (UK) is an
organisation open only to people of African origin.
2. That ARM (UK) should
should form a structure which reflects the
breadth and depth of the African community in Britain.
3. That ARM (UK) is Pan-Africanist in it's outlook.
4. That local groups should be set up which have constitutions
87