Ras Tafari International Consultants.
NUMBER 14
41 ARMOURY WAY
WANDSWORTH
LONDON SW18 HQ
For the attention of The Rt Hon John Major MP
соруто Ветме
C/O the White House
Washington DC U.S.A.
RECEIVED
Grant
Fax 0101 202 456 2461
Two (2) pages
MR.
5- APR 1995
3rd April 1995
Dear Prime minister,
Please accept our Ras Tafari greetings and best wishes on your
visit to the U.S.A. in the name of the Father and the Son and
the Holy Spirit, Conquering Lion of Judah, Almighty God Haile
Selassie I, King of Kings in the Bible, King of the living and
the Dead, Father of African Unity.
Concerning the "Looting of the Ethiopian Church on 13th April
1868 by the Army of Queen Victoria, The Police raid on my Home,
and your visit to the United States of America.
1 We have requested President Clinton and Admiral Crowe to
inquire into the "Looting of the Ethiopian Church on behalh of
the American people, please find attached a letter from the
Department of National Heritage for your information.
Please enquire urgently into why my home was raided by
armed Police, why was such heavy damage inflicted on my front
door, was any property taken from my home, am I wanted by any
of your officers for any reason?
3
Please find time today to consult with the American people
concerning the "Looting of the Ethiopian Church in 1868, and
what you intend to do about it.
4 Please advise me if the Police raid on my home was a crude
attempt to smear my enquiry, can you ensure that a clean
investigation is carried out as we are known to the public
and any criminal investigation by you will affect the public
intrest in this case. For these and other reasons we have
reffered this case to President Santer of the European Commission
While you are in the U.S.A. please convey our warmest greetings
to President Clinton and the American people, in the name of
the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Assuring you of our
highest consideration, we await your safe return to this Country.
Yours sincerely
47:42905: 6047727::
Seymour Mclean
: Pleas & HeLP Saymour:
"
።እግዚአብሔር ንጉሠ ፡ ነገሥት ፡ ዘኢትዮጵያ ፡