As a practioner of the arts you ocuppy a position of
tremendous influence and frightening responsibilties. Music
and the arts have from time immemorial been at the vanguard
of our stuggle for liberation and dignity. Indeed the
artiste has always represented one of most powerful
communicative weapons. As such it is only natural that
artiste should be at the centre of such a momentus issue
reparations.
as
It is with this in mind that I beg your indulgence and ask,
(to whatever extent you are
firstly, that you assist us
capable) with sponsorship (i.e cash or in kind) and
promotion (i.e popularize ). of the idea of reparations
we ask that you sign 1the Birmingham Declaration as
testimony to your public support for the principle of
reparations, and lend your high profile status (once or
twice a year to ARM (UK) organised fund-raising or media
events
Further to this we recommend that you join our
artiste/entertainer section and your name to a bank of other
artiste/entertainers with a veiw to developing a forum
within which artiste can organise around the issue of
reparations and other equally important concerns.
Please note that if you do decide to put yourself forward
your generosity and concern will not abused, misused or
disrespected and that tight quidlines (to maintain disciple)
will govern your relationship with ARM (UK) in such a way
that your interest will always be respected.
We desperately need your support (moral, material and
economic), So please do not foresake us. Reparation is the
one single issue of our time that has the potential to
launch people of African origin into their rightful place at
the centre of world politics.
The Jews, have received their pound of flesh for the
atrocities of the Nazi death camps; their is no sound reason
for the genocide
why we should not receive ours
we have experienced.
redr
If you require any further information please do not
hesistate to contact my office, if I am unavailable you may
speak with one of my aides Colin or Derrick. We shall be
publishing a newsletter to keep all concerned informed of
all future developments.
Pleasem be true to yourself, your family and community and
iously consider our proposal.
Thanking you in anticipation of your coopertion