manipulation of the developed world. The prices of cocoa, coffee, cotton, etc, continue to
fluctuate in the international market and they have fallen victims of manipulation. Even the
price of crude oil is manipulated by the West despite the existence of OPEC. The most
decisive among these factors according to Adedeji, is the economic dependence of African
countries and their excessive external orientation. The African economies continues to depend
on the former colonial masters both in terms of economic policies, and consumption, export
and import orientation. This dependence has made the African economy susceptible to
frequent external shocks.
10
ng bhe lens
mo
lens, dinst
These countries cannot generate enough foreign exchange to pursue meaningful
development programmes. In fact, in some of the African countries, economic development
has become unattainable because people who are unable to afford the basic needs, cannot be
talking of capital investment that will bring about economic growth and development. The
most immediate pre-occupation is how to get their three square meals a day. Some have
turned to beggar nations, begging for food, aid and the lack of such aid has reduced the
inhabitants of these countries to mere shadow of their former selves.
There exists extreme poverty which causes excessive malnutrition in mo't of the
African countries and some of them are yet to be touched by modernization. Africa is
seriously plagued by hunger, draught, rising population, etc. The food production is not
keeping pace with population growth. In fact, there is no dismal description that could give
a vivid picture or reflection of what exists in some of the African countries.
African socio-economic indicators (Table I) is nothing to write home. For example
Guillaumont (1990) shows that the manufacturing sector contributes a meager 12 per cent to
the GDP; The GDP per capita is about $544.00 in 1987, while average per capita GDP
growth rate between 1980-1988 was -1.9%. The average life expectancy is 52 and debt
years
as a percentage of GDP in 1988 was 94.1 per cent. Comparing the statistics with that of
industrialized countries, one could not but sympathize with the African countries, but the Age,
of mere sympathy must be over. There must be a practical positive approach to solving
African problems. The African governments on their part with short-fall in foreign exchange
revenue, have resorted to massive borrowing as the solution to the African predicament.
III
AFRICAN DEBT CRISIS AND REPARATION
The African debt crisis became more visible in the 1980s. The Sub-Saharan African
debt which was $57.5 billion in 1980 according to IMF 1989 Report rose to $137.8 billion
in 1987 an increase of 140 per cent between 1980 and 1987, while an estimated African debt
as at 1987 stood at 220 billion. This is shown in Table II. The debt burden whether measured
Given the extent of African debt and its burden, various solutions have been suggested
for debt relief or reduction policies. Most of these policies hinge on structural adjustment
policies, debt rescheduling policies, interest rate capitalization etc, and in many countries
policies have been geared toward the achievement of these goals. However, in spite of
corrective economic policy measures that have been put in place, the African economies are
yet to visible improvement. Okoh (1990) concluded that any economic policy of debt relief
short of debt write-off or debt forgiveness is not very helpful.
to
However some African/American scholars have recently re-opened the issue of
reparation. Reparation as earlier defined is payment of compensation to African countries or
the black race that suffered slavery in the hands of Western European countries and the
United States of America. The advocates believe strongly that these countries used slave
labour to develop their economies and today are pursuing economic policy measures that
dquors for
continue to make Africa overly dependent and underdeveloped. They believe that the
depravation suffered by these African countries was responsible for their state of
underdevelopment. To ensure justice and fair play the developed world needs to pay African
countries a lump sum of money for not only "taking their resources" but also for the inhuman
treatment of the slaves; and to show remorse.
aved idal
noillid 22
is
While this paper sees this advocacy as a noble cause, the chance of its succeeding is
remote. In fact, it may even be seen as one of those trivial calls of a radical few and therefore
treated with contempt. Many do not see it as a serious demand.
loq A.noitulo
emaldona
The first problem with this demand is how the compensation should be determined?
Payment of reparation is an admission of guilt which may lead to many more unknown
demands and legal action. How does one determine what is due to each African country or
the black race? How are we sure that the payment would be not polarize African or the black
race even more? To this author there is no amount that would be sufficient as compensation
except the entire assets of the European and American countries.
Snob sam
10
This paper will like to suggest that instead of the black race advocating for reparations,
an impossible task, African countries should be using reparations as a strategy for debt write-
off and increased capita; inflows through grant-in-aid. There is need for African countries to
ask for improved aid flows, debt relief, and greater access to the developed country's markets
for their few limited exports, if Africa is to accelerate the rate of economic growth and
development. Pearson (1970) in an outlined strategy to encourage economic development of
the developing countries observed that trade policies of advanced countries raised many
obstacles to the growth of export earnings of less developed economies. He therefore
22
23