saying that unity is strength. We Africans, both at home and in diaspora must pull our
resources together in order to advance the cause of our race. Numerically, the African races
is fewer than the other races on this global village, and it is a duty for us all to share the
bounties of this planet without endangering the survival of each and every one of us. The only
way to move forward is to support ourselves in whatever we do. For example, we must
organized ourselves in the Americas so that we can constitute a pressure group that will
ensure that policies emanating from the new world are favourable to the advancement of our
people. We can borrow a leaf from the Jewish lobby in America which ensures that the State
of Israel gets budgetary support running into billions of dollars every year from the United
States.
20.
I am aware of the activities of Trans Africa and the Congressional Black Caucus, but
we need to do more than these two bodies are doing to bring the plight and need of Africa
into great focus.
21.
There is also a need for investment to come into Africa through mobilization of black
funds and enterprise particularly in the United States and the Caribbean. It should not be too
difficult for Africans and their brethren in diaspora to form joint ventures to stimulate and
develop the economy of our common homeland. We Africans at home should also follow a
policy of complementarity whereby we invest in black enterprises in the United States and
Brazil and the Caribbean, for example. There is no reason on earth why Black banks in the
United States and Black entrepreneurs should not attract business from our thriving oil sector.
22. It should also be possible for Africans in the new world to enjoy dual citizenship of
whatever African country they decide to adopt as their home country.
23.
anhub
To
One of the greatest huddles that Africa must overcome is the lack of technological
know-how. There is a pool of this kind of people in the Black diaspora waiting to be tapped.
It only requires the approximate mechanism and information to be put in place so as to
explore and exploit this possibilities.
24.
We need to fully integrate the African economy. The present division of the continent
into puny states cannot but act as a drag to the wheel of progress. We must overcome the
fissiparous tendencies that seem to undermine Africa's inexorable march towards greater
unity.
We must unite or perish for Africa and Africans are both an endangered continent and specie.
That is the truth. The world is not for the week but the strong. If we want to survive as a
18
people we must unite and be strong.
25.
It is true that the international environment for centuries has not been favourable_to
the blackman. Having diagnosed our problems we must adopt the appropriate solution and
take the bull by the horn. It will not be easy but we must begin. And now.
26.
While demanding reparation, it must be clear to us that we are not building a world
of racial exclusivity. This will be negative and unhealthy. We Africans are not seeking to
dominate anybody. Nor are we going to allow anybody or group dominate us. What we seek
is partnership with other people. But this partnership must be built on mutual respect.
27. The rest of the world cannot only help but must help so that together we can jointly
build a world where no one is oppressed and a world of one human race built on harmony
of black, brown, yellow and white races moving in unison to develop together a natural
endowment and bounties of nature while preserving our environment. This is the only way
if the world is to develop peacefully.
28.
201
The present situation where an important segment of the human family feels
marginalized and victim of a conjuncture of man made evil forces is not a good augury for
the peace of the world.
29.
In the true spirit of interdependence, all nations, big or small, rich or poor, black or
white at varying levels of development, have important and specific roles to play if the
objective of a prosperous and vibrant global village is to be placed within reach. All it takes
is the political will to attain this objective and I believe that there is sufficient political
realism to reinforce the momentum and justness of our cause. We should summon and take
that political decision to realize the desired goal of full equality of human family. We can do
it now and now is the time.
30. Once again I wish to express our profound gratitude to Concord Press of Nigeria and
especially to its publisher, Bashorun M. K. O. Abiola for turning the dream of this conference
into reality.
Tuodal svale babi ivory a
31.I wish you all sincere and fruitful deliberation. It is my great pleasure to declare the
conference open.
to youm
A
ovale for you a list of
32. Thank you and God bless you.
Torijom" or do aned a singloo
19