Slavery and colonialism have inflicted tremendous damage on Africa and on Africans
in the Diaspora. Millions of Africans have died in the process of implementation of these
policies, the African economy, culture and societies were completely devastated. For over four
hundred and fifty years Africans were caught, manacled and shipped across the Atlantic to
create wealth in other parts of the world. Those who did not die during the raids or in transit
were condemned to lives of servitude. The millions captured were the young and virile Afri-
cans, the very class needed for the development of the continent. Slavery was accompanied
and later replaced by colonialism. Many millions more died resisting to colonialism. The
curtailment of freedom and the disruption of the normal way of life of the Africans created
psychological, social, economic and political problems the scars of which are still with us.
It is for these damages and injustices that reparation is sought.
aib ed
HISTORICAL AND MORAL GROUNDS FOR REPARATIONS A bas squal to inam
Reparation is not new because it is at the heart of social justice. Whenever and wher-
ever individuals, groups of people and nations are wronged or are victims of terrible crimes,
case for reparations can justly be made. History is replete with such instances.
Africans, more than any race of people, have been the victims of the longest crimes
and cruelties which began from the times of slavery and still continue till today. With blood,
sweat and tears over a period of about six centuries, Africans have put together a solid, unas-
sailable case for reparations. A compelling moral and historical case which the rest of the
world is still to give a fair hearing.
bluoy
Africa's case for reparations is not based on sentiments or on a single event in history.
The case is unique because it spans six centuries. It is based on the unequalled savagery and
bestiality of the slave trade, the subjugation and exploitation of colonialism and the degrada-
tion and puppet-existence of neo-colonialism. The current crisis in Africa are the consequenc-
es of colonialism and neo-colonialism.
Scholars and Pan-Africanists at different times and at different fora have eloquently
articulated and documented the historical case for reparations. Works by Africans at home and
in the diaspora are painful reminders of the horrors of slavery and the injury and death of
resisting colonial subjugation. These works provide ample historical background for the de-
mand for reparations.
The consequences of the slave trade, colonialism and neo-colonialism in Africa today
can be summed up in one word: Underdevelopment. Many studies already exist detailing what
this implies. We can explore the implication of the massive loss of population which has been
has been likened to prolonged hemorrhage in a person, leading to severe anaemia and the
need for blood transfusion. We can examine the consequence of uneven exchange, economic
exploitation and technological retardation; the undermining of the very fabric of society and
destruction of any sense of regional solidarity.
The Slave Trade
The world was slow to recognize the fact that the slave trade was a crime against
humanity. Many acts which individually were recognized as crimes in international law were
regular features of the slave trade, for example, piracy and kidnapping. Similarly, while
attempts continued in Europe to bring war under some international regulations, slave wars
were not included.
The notorious Middle Passage illustrated the extent of the denial of human dignity.
Even criminals being transported to Australia were not subjected to such degradation. In the
New World, this denial of the humanity of black slaves was institutionalized. Eventually,
Britain took the lead in seeking international acceptance that it is a crime to divest human
being of their humanity and treat them as chattel property to be bought and sold. By that
time, the Atlantic slave trade had lasted four centuries. The loss to Africa, taking into ac-
count those who died in the wars and in transit in Africa and on the Atlantic crossing, was
over 20 million people.
Colonialism
The Berlin Conference drew up plans for the partition of Africa without a single
African power being represented. Partition was regulated under international law in so far
as it concerned the relationship between different European States; the relationship between
them and African peoples was outside the law. The wars of conquest, for the most part, were
crimes against humanity in their ruthlessness, and genocide. Atrocities in the Congo Free
State are well documented, so also is the case against the Germans in Namibia, Tanganyika
and the Cameroon by the allied victors at World War I.
Neo-colonialism
The League of Nations began the process of bringing colonialism under international
regulation and to show it up as a crime against humanity. The territories taken from the
Germans were placed under a mandate system which involves some degree of international
supervision. The international community began to question the theory of colonialism on the
bases of its denial of freedom, lack of opportunities, neglect of economic development and
impoverishment through ruthless exploitation.
6
7