people who are ruled by local agents of their victimizers? Demands by such people are not taken
seriously.
vide
dob
Can we expect or exact reparations when Black World elites are dominated by Fifth Column
elements, who spread slanders put out by our enemies, and who see to our chronic disorganization -
- elements whose faces belong among us, but whose words and deeds aid. and abet our foes?
-
Can we expect or exact reparations when all too many of our elites ignore, or even oppose
our historic mission to end our five centuries of humiliation?
Can we expect or exact reparations when all too many of our elites would give the
perpetrators of apartheid equal right on African soil with the Blacks they have long despoiled and
still despoil; when our neo-colonial regimes have refused to send their bloated armies of internal
plunder to sack and dismantle the Boer Reich, and have even helped to maneuver the South African
Freedom Fighters into the political ambush set for them by De Klerk and his gang?
boot
shut
oint A bowo at
bowo at doidw" idoba ol points with I
cart not Can we expect or extract reparations when all too many of our elites claim they are Black
Arabs, even fake Arab genealogies for themselves, and make war on other Blacks to Arabize them?
ad lliw doidw
iw en Can we expect or extract reparations when our leaders maintain an unholy silence, and do
nothing, as our Arab enemies, from capitals like Nouakchott, Tripoli and Khartoum, prosecute wars
of conquest, expulsion and extermination against Black populations?
101 bassb
sw I
zidi sundanoozim bluoda bhow slack
smoz 11
bolosze Can we expect or exact reparation when our neocolonial regimes do not see it as their historic
mission to drive Arab expansionists as far back, at least, as the Tropic of Cancer?
quoy to two mid soil noy.gninuhoqmi zid to stil uoy nodwagged bolqgio a of anoitsiaqona
Can we expect or exact reparations when all too many of our leaders deny that Pan-
Africanism is a movement for the rehabilitation and advancement of the Black Race; deny that the
Black Diaspora are Africans; but assert that European and Arab despoilers who occupy our lands
have become authentic Africans? noqonul linnu bono) bas betooges on owlin blood
wong leoitong bas istom riguons gond ow litnu
Can we expect or exact reparations when we have erected no monuments to the victims of
the Slaving Holocaust, when we do not hold yearly rites to remind us of our losses, when we do not
gather at shrines each week to hear admonitions to never again permit such despoliation and
humiliation?
yabot bromob o
Proxim
to lliwboog or no ages on odw
arb
odwzm
ays of Can we expect or exact reparations when so many of our luminaries pander after acclaim, and
in order to get it,, mislead us, dishonour our forebears, despise our ancestral religions, pour racist
scorn on our black heads, preach non-violence against our chronically violent despoilers, and help
loot our economies for their masters?
Can we expect or exact reparations when we hold as our heroes the captain of our enemy
invaders spies like Mungo Park and David Livingstone; conquerors like Frederic Lugard; mass
murderers like King Leopold II; grand plunderers like Cecil Rhodes?
--
Can we expect or exact reparations when we fail to acclaim the true heroes of the Black
World: from Menes, Imhotep and Taharka down to Dubois, Garvey and Cheikh Anta Diop?
Can we expect or exact reparations when disorganizers among us oppose independent
organizations of the Black World (like a Black World League of Nations, and an Organization of
Black African States), while they cling, with desperate loyalty, to Europhile and Arabophile outfits
like the OAU (the Organization of African Eunuchs, according to Fela), the Arab League, the British
Commonwealth and the French Community?
So long as such terrible internal conditions persist, where shall we find the strength to press
for reparations? And who would respect us enough to pay us?
As can be seen from this partial catalogue of our internal obstacles, our job is cut out for us,
if we seriously want reparations. Let it be emphasized: to confuse reparations with aid; to persist in
our colonial mentality and disoriented behaviour; and to leave our leadership to the Fifth Column,
would be how not to get reparations.
THE PROSPECT TODAY
of the sheThe task before us may seem like removing a mountain using a pick axe, shovel and basket.
However, as in all things, the important thing is to begin. Even a journey of a million miles begins
with a single step. And today, by the holding of this conference, that crucial step has been taken.
Now that our journey of rehabilitation has begun, even if it should take ten generations, our prospects
are already much improved.
People of the Black World, I say to you: take heart; our day shall come when we shall clean
up our internal mess; when we shall decolonize our minds; when we shall relegate to the margins
of our affairs the Trojan Horses and Fifth Column among us; when Black patriotism shall finally rule
the lives of the Black Race; when the Black World shall again be respected and compensated. Let
me leave it written that our day is on its way.
38
39