of economic growth and development. Pearson (1970) in an outlined strategy to encourage
economic development of the developing countries observed that trade policies of advanced
countries raised many obstacles to the growth of export earnings of less developed
economies. He therefore recommended a framework that would allow for a free and equitable
international trade. In fact, the future looks bleak with 41 African countries classified as least
developed countries in 1990. This is an increase of 16 countries since 1980. A country is so
classified if its GDP, adult literacy rate, the contribution of manufacturing value added to the
GDP etc, are below what is expected as normal contribution. The ratio of debt to GDP of
these countries has risen in the 1980s according to African Recovery from 53 per cent in
1984 to 78.2 per cent in 1987.
The industrialized countries appear to have been showing sympathy, which of course
is not enough to ameliorate the debt burden of the African countries. For example, these
industrialized countries are implementing some debt relief policy measures for-African LDCs
which include debt cancellation, especially for the poorest countries, and the total of the
amount so far cancelled was $3 billion in 1988. However, in June 1989, France, Japan, and
the U.S. decided to cancel the official debt of the poorest African countries. So far, about
$5 billion African debt have been cancelled by the U. S., the Federal Republic of Germany
and Belgium.
To sonado
This type of selective debt policy while commendable clearly falls short of an
effective solution. A policy of debt write-off and increased inflows of aids is the only answer
to solving African economic problems.
wowplay a
IV. CONCLUSION
of besl
wod ai bamb
This paper has argued that what Africa needs is debt write-off and increased inflows
of capital from the industrialized world. It takes the position that reparations pose a problem
of admission of guilt which may have legal implications. How does one estimate the amount
of compensation to be paid to the African countries for looting its resources or for the
psychological damage done to the black race through slavery? Again assuming the Western
countries agree to pay for expropriating black man's resources and the slave labour, what
oda
would be the magic formula for sharing of the amount paid among the African countries, or
the black race in general?
bis dont
ས
silan dab awo
bevormi not as
In view of the above obvious problems, the author believes that the present rhetoric
on reparations should be a mere strategy to forcing the industrialized world to action because
they contributed to the underdevelopment of African countries. They should therefore
contribute towards its effective development. The paper therefore calls for debt write-off and
increased inflows of aid.
Lele and Nabi (1960) observed that one of the fundamental problems of the
developing countries is that most of the public loans were invested in wasteful non-income
producing industries. Okoh (1990) observed that public grants and loans have in most cases
been squandered on meaningless projects. African countries must uphold the virtues of
discipline and probity. African economic policy measures must be inward looking, instead
of encouraging more dependency. Africa must be aware that it is fast becoming less and less
relevant to the growth of the western world. The continent has to think very seriously how
to avoid being completely marginalized. This is an uphill task in view of Europe 1992 and
the events in the Eastern Europe.
Deer guvoh mot borgsbA 2
135
24
25
25