ant by European powers conceded political independence but retained control over the econo-
mies of Africa which they integrated into the world system, placing them in a position of
dependence. The world has so far failed to accept that neo-colonialism, like the slave trade
and colonialism before it, is a crime against humanity; that the social, economic, and tech-
nological divide between Africa and Europe has widened immeasurably. The international
community has so far rejected calls for a new international economic order which would have
permitted a more just system of resource distribution.
wsl
alidw The call for reparations is an attempt to break through this vicious cycle. It is a search
for a more just international order, a redistribution of surplus funds now invested on
armaments and the arms race. Africa needs reparations to repair the damage done to basic
infrastructure, education, and the entire social system.
vlingib nou
The Holocaust and Africa
vllaut The demand for reparations involves comparison between the fate of Africa and the
holocaust. Can anything in history be compared in scale and criminality to the crime of the
holocaust? Those directly affected by the holocaust will insist that nothing can be so com-
pared, but this is because the world has forgotten the factor of criminality contained in the
trilogy of the slave trade, colonialism and neo-colonialism.
melisinole
signia & Juodsi son A to noisinsq ad not analq qu womb consta aihed T
utos ni wel lenoirement jebu boisluge woonbaino grind nowo dich
neowind qidenoiteleradiowed ideoiales, or beco
RECOMMENDATIONS
MOITU 1028
After exhaustive discussion and deliberation on the issues relating to reparations, the
following recommendations were made:
1.
The critical issue of reparation to Africa and Africans in the diaspora should
be taken to the top of the agenda of international dialogue. The issue of repa-
rations should be presented before the Organization of African Unity for
niniw sbiwb endorsement and then carried to the United Nations. soubor
2.
baut
3.
The creation of a Think Tank comprising carefully trained specialists to pro
vide the data base necessary for presenting the case of reparation. To achieve
alq this, an international centre and regional centres should be created for the
study of reparations.
The campaign for reparations should be made a mass movement using the
following methods:
anoiuloast
a. The incorporation of the concept of reparations to Africans into the
history syllabus of schools at the secondary and tertiary levels.
The preparation and dissemination of literature on reparations.
Scholarly research and discussion on reparations to Africans.
Workshops, conferences, and symposia organized on the subject.
Using a multi-media approach to create awareness of the concept and
to facilitate the processes of reparations to Africans.
b.
C.
d.
e.
f.
Use of non-governmental organization, social clubs, etc, to raise awa
reness so that the struggle for reparations will become a mass move-
ment.
liyeanssidim ni eno od jenings as si ai dela oz, bolasmucob low se
02
JW blow a 21otiv boille sal yd noonam
на
sit bns
place.
Isnoitempti by mailsinoloo anigand to gang dingenital to ages off
od mont make anotima edingsmul tenings amino a qui rode or bandoiteluge
Isnoitamalai to songs amoz asylovni roidw malaya aisbnem a robnu boosiq mow anams
oni no maitsinolos to gross all noitesup of neged ytimummo fanolamini nosivoque
bas imamgolavab simonage to toolgen ihongo to all moon to Innobalt to send y
tilqua azaldu diguorittamidehavoqini
8
Our
01
9