CHINWEIZU is the author of several books. Among them are The West and the Rest of Us;
Decolonizing the African Mind; Invocations and Admonitions, and Anatomy of Female Power. His
newspaper column "The Chinweizu Observatory" appears in the Sunday Vanguard of Lagos.
conolagni
nedw
bhasha ognuM salil
bang ili blogoad
scort
THE SLAVE TRADE, COLONIALISM AND NEOCOLONIALISM
dexA si notnom of on aniIN HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE
by PROF. J. F. ADE AJAYI
obrum
29mno ba
TEW
ni borb ofw
avela
od senings bonul ning
evale di qu
30
eloos of list ow porn
1 0 155
alodull of awob hsdeT bas qatornionsM mon bhoW
10
18
Insbasqabai sanggo a gnoms assinegoaib new anons to eve the
to collegio da bnsadolia to suges show donald) bowli to anoisinag
auto slidgoda A bas slidgous or vilayo sisigas dignilo yods slirlw (2 pontos
Muha
around on to noisxinggi adt) UAD la salil
Syliaummo donon adt ban dileswnommo
of rigno odt bait ow lleria shortw jalang anoitibnos lametni oldin
Yau veq of diguons zu tooges bluow of
doua as gnol 02
baA Sanoites 30
au o tuo tu al doj quo estostedo lamstai nuo to sugolates leineg aids mont no ad o A
ni taimoq of bis diw anglings saulnco of bacizariqms ad i sl.anoite new leone sw li
lito
of qularsbesl no oves! of bus auoivaded botnohoaib bos viilatnom lainaloo wo
anime log of Jon wod od bluow
КАПОТ ТОЛго ант
Joland bins lovora,ox oiq gniau nistovom s gaivoman salil mooz yem au soled class or T
&
aniged aslim noillim a to yomuoja nova migod of ai gaida tashoqmi slagnir is ni as vowoH
good and quasonsisto aids to gaiblod srls ydyebot baA.qola signia s ditw
sd
bing not sale bluoda ili novo,nuged as noitalilidads to yamuni 100 18 wo
bavongmi doumybos
22
maslo Heda ow now smoo flere yab nuo nesd sols way of ysa bhow last to algos
Hede wo I
aniquam sit of shigsla lada ow now abnim o asinoloosb llada ow now am lamotni a qu
olun ylisait leda maitong si now au gnome amulo di bassol najor or its 100 10
tal belezamos bus botosqa ed nisge liedz bhow bado now so doel dit to ovil ods
yaw ali no ai yeb tuo tad nettiw i oves! sm
INTRODUCTION
35m9
20180211dto bow baslodel ad
The consequences of the Slave Trade, Colonialism and Neocolonialism in Africa Today can
be summed up in one word: Under-development. Many studies already exist detailing out what this
implies. The best known of such works is probably Walter Rodney's How Europe Under-developed
Africa. We can explore the implication of the massive loss of population which has been likened to
prolonged hemorrhage in a person, leading to severe anaemia and the need for blood transfusion. We
can examine the consequent uneven exchange, economic exploitation and technological retardation;
the undermining of the very fabric of society and destruction of any sense of regional solidarity.
Rather than attempt to explore these in detail, I wish instead to examine aspects of the Slave
Trade, Colonialism and Neocolonialism which justify their being linked together in considering the
question of Reparation. Reparation, as we know, is linked up with the concept of crime in
International Law. I therefore wish to examine the criminal factor in the Slave Trade, Colonialism
and Neocolonialism.
THE SLAVE TRADE
TA
The world was slow to recognize the fact that the Slave Trade was a crime against humanity.
Many acts which individually were recognized as crimes in international law were regular features
of the slave trade but connived at. For example, piracy and kidnapping were recognized as crime in
international law but connived at in the slave trade, especially in the recruitment of slaves. Similarly,
while attempts continued in Europe to bring war under some international regulation, slave wars
continued to defy regulation. Slave wars were often undeclared wars, wars of aggression, total war,
violating the right of ransom etc.
REW
The notorious Middle Passage illustrated the extent of the denial of human dignity. Even
criminals being transported to Australia were not subjected to such degradation. In the New world,
this denial of the humanity of black slaves was legalized and institutionalized.
Eventually, Britain took the lead in seeking international acceptance that it is a crime to divest
human beings of their humanity and treat them as chattel property to be bought and sold. By that
time, the Atlantic Slave Trade had lasted four centuries. The loss to Africa taking into account those
40
41