SE REPARATIONS TO THE BLACK WORLD - AND HOW NOT TO GET THEM of
by Chinweizu
(lali ai quang Jad) nadi
Paper for presentation to the World Conference on Reparations to Africa and Africans in the
Diaspora, at the NIIA, Lagos, December 13 & 14, 1990. imonos soubor ass
yonal
comeb
Yllemitqo-due
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
اللادان له
In the 16th century, Arabs and Europeans began the current phase of their assault on the
Black World. In Africa before that time, the no man's land between the Black World and its Euro-
Asiatic invaders had stabilized north of the Tropic of Cancer, north of a line running through
Tegheza in the West and Aswan in the East. But in that calamitous century, Europeans and Arabs
renewed the age-old Euro-Asiatic offensive through which, in the preceding 2000 years, they had
seized Africans lands north of the Tropic of Cancer.
The 16th century was the century when the Portuguese vanguard of the European invaders
distabilized the Bukongo Kingdom, and obliged it to supply them with slaves. That was when the
Portuguese subjugated Kilwa, Sofala, Pate, Mombasa and other coastal towns in East Africa, and
seized control of their Indian Ocean trade. That was when the Portuguese sent an expedition inland
against Mwanamupata to seize its gold.
That was when Moroccan Arabs seized Tegheza and its salt mines, and sent across the Sahara
an expedition which conquered and destroyed Songhay. That was when the Arabs of Egypt when
on their expansionist offensive against Nubia and Ethiopia, and conquered the Kingdom of Alwa.
That was when Bedoin Arabs infiltrated the region around Lake Chad and settled there.
These expeditions are a watershed in the modern history of the Black World. They
inaugurated some three and a half centuries of a slaving holocaust which destroyed Black African
societies and condemned hundreds of millions of Blacks to death and enslavement at the hand of
Europeans and Arabs. And that slaving holocaust, by far the greatest holocaust in human history,
was followed by the European conquest, colonization and neo-colonization of the Black World.
That general offensive against the Black World, which began five centuries ago, has not
stopped. It is still going on in South Africa, in the Sudan, in Mauritania and other places.
What we are to assess are the damage we have sustained, and the losses we have incurred
in the course of five centuries of an unprovoked invasion of the Black homeland, with its resulting
dispersal of Black Africans; as well as what reparations we should exact, and how.
PRECEDENTS FOR REPARATIONS
Reparations for grievous and gratuitous harm done to nations and peoples are not new. In
this century alone, there have been some important precedents.
botonin If Germany is paying reparations (amount undisclosed, but allegedly huge) to Israel for the
Jewish victims of Hitler's 12 years long holocaust, why should the European World not pay
reparations to the Black World for some 350 years of slaving holocaust?
If Germany paid indemnities to the Entente Powers for its responsibility in causing WW1,
why should the European World not pay reparations to the Black World for five centuries of
unprovoked wars, conquest and looting?
If Saddam Hussein is expected to pay reparations to Kuwait for gratuitously invading and
destroying it, why should the Arab world not pay reparations to the Black World for gratuitous acts
of invasion, destruction and enslavement (both physical and cultural;) in the Black World?
If the Japanese have apologized to the Koreans for their atrocious behaviour during their
conquest and occupation of Korea; and if the North Koreans are demanding $5 bn from Japan in
reparations for 35 years of occupation, why should the Black World not exact apologies and
reparations from both the Europeans and Arab Worlds for five centuries of Atrocities?
23
2010 smoz To
PARTICULARS OF CLAIMS
blow The following are some of the main items for which reparations may be sought. Our
historians and economists have to calculate the specific amount to be paid after determining the
quantities involved, and their market prices at the time each item was expropriated or destroyed.
A) Rent on lands expropriated by European and Arab settlers during the last 500 years (e.g.
banoge some 500 years in the Sudan and Chad; some 400 years in South Africa, Mauritania and
Mali; some 100 years in Kenya, Zimbabwe and Namibia.)
34
35