Let me boldly attempt the complexities of definition. Pan-Africanism, as history and study
will reveal, has meant different things at different times even to such great Scholars as Dr. W. E. B.
Dubois and the erudite Leopold Senghor whose "negritude" emphasized the element of racism. Some
of these interpretation have consequently set loose emotional argument in full flight but does not
effect a logical analysis of the subject, sufficient for it to be pursued as a coherent movement. I
would, however, say that it includes the following concepts:
И
Pan-Africanism can be described as a movement of ideas expressive of cultural unity, political independence
and the desire to develop Africa and all peoples of African descent on the basis of equality of rights.
In the heart of this movement, Africa is the real homeland of all those who are aware of their
commitment to our fore-fathers. It is because Pan-Africanism stands for the economic, technological,
social and political advancement of the whole continent of Africa that I find it easy to marry
conceptually the ideas of Justice and Reparations.
Tibjeg i anw modw of boa
May I humbly suggest as another proposal that we utilize this opportunity to analyze study
and rationalize the basic theoretical principles of the Pan-African movement. Some 10 years ago, I
was in a discussion with certain Commonwealth leaders debating what even then, was not a new idea.
It may give an indication of one of the forms Reparations could take. Ever since many political
leaders made successive pilgrimages one after another to representatives of the developed world with
monotonous regularity, certain features began to demonstrate with the utmost clarity an attitude of
mendicancy and deficiencies. The erstwhile masters, at home in London, Paris, or elsewhere, usually
were accompanied by carefully selected groups of experts. These specialists provided the resource
material for the discussion. They provided all the answers. Our leaders - always the petitioners
usually have little to fall back onto for support. We usually had very little other than Justice and
emotion on our side. The idea being discussed some 10 years ago was the need for a 3rd World-
Think-Tank a permanent body of carefully trained specialists from among our own people, set up
by the establishment in a foundation for research. It would be a resource base to supply our leaders
with necessary preparations for their need in such meetings.
The process of the adjustment must take some time, for education, technology or otherwise
is not an "instant fix". We are optimistic, however, in the knowledge that even under the heavy
pressures of past and present history, the 3rd World has produced example for brilliance among our
sons and daughters in every profession. Their achievements have made us proud. Nevertheless, the
strain to get there has been great, and unnecessary, and unjust. Today the 3rd World is burdened with
foreign debts for which no satisfactory solution has yet evolved. The establishment of such a
foundation would be a worthy act expressive of sincerity towards the process of solution of that
problem.
A problem to fund such a Research Body could utilize many of our own brilliant sons and
daughters graduating annually in the universities of the world with doctorates and degrees in every
possible subject. I believe the idea in modified form has arisen at various times. The Ex-President -
General Obasanjo - in his forum expresses it. President Nyerere in his South-South Chairmanship
has thought of it. Ambassador Salim, the Secretary General of the O. A. U. is aware of it. Chief
Emeka Anyaoku, Secretary General of the Commonwealth is admirably poised to project it.
There is yet another approach to finding a remedy of redress in this call for Reparation.
There are many precedents from history old and recent in which payments of large sums have been
offered to the Jews, the Japanese - Americans, the Germans and others, to expiate injuries meted
out to them.
At present not only are we suffering from the backward boomerang of earlier under-
development, but we are all saddled by the burden of foreign debt - which is to many countries
clearly impossible of repayment. Up to today no satisfactory solution has evolved in tackling this
problem globally. I recommend that our common commitment to the just solution of our present
dilemma impels us directly to greater efforts of cooperation between governments, institutions and
other civic associations to request as a first token of sincerity towards Reparations that the chains
represented by Foreign Debts be removed from around our necks. Nigeria could lead this drive on
cooperation of governments.
Let me close with the belief that our joint efforts will raise our vision from the plane of
patient hope, through a plan of action, and on to the higher dimensions of actual expectation and
achievement.
46
47