ADDRESS DELIVERED BY THE PRESIDENT, COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE
ARMED FORCES OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA, GENERAL
IBRAHIM BADAMASI BABANGIDA, CFR, FSS, mni, ON THE OCCASION OF THE
WORLD CONFERENCE ON REPARATIONS TO AFRICA AND AFRICANS IN THE
DIASPORA HOLDING AT THE NIGERIAN INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS, LAGOS, ON THURSDAY 13th DECEMBER, 1990.
Mr. Chairman,
Members of the Armed Forces Ruling Council,
Members of the Federal and State Executive Councils,
Your Excellencies, Ambassadors, and Heads of Diplomatic Corps,
Conference Participants,
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen,
bas
I am greatly delighted to be amidst this distinguished audience of Statesmen, scholars and
concerned individuals from Africa and from Africans in the diaspora who have gathered here
to discuss the very critical issue of reparations. First and foremost, I welcome you all to
Nigeria and to this very important Conference.
2. Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, the convening of this Conference is indeed
epoch making. While individuals and groups have talked over the years about the need for
reparations to the black race for the historical wrongs done to the race, no one has attempted
in a concrete way to translate this desire into reality which I believe is the basic objective of
this Conference.
3.
Let me therefore congratulate the Concord Press of Nigeria and especially its
Publisher, Bashorun M. K. O. Abiola for this bold initiative. One major issue that will
confront this Conference is the articulating, in a very clear way, the need for reparations and
how much reparations. I believe this is crucial for the simple reason that human loss, human
suffering, human degradation, and disorientation cannot really be quantified in terms of
money.
4. For about four hundred and fifty years, Africans were caught, manacled and shipped
across the Atlantic to create wealth for their captors in the sugar cane, tobacco, and cotton
plantations in the Americas. Great were the privation to which they were subjected. Those
who did not die during the raid or during the middle passage and were finally landed in the
Americas were sentenced to lives of servitude without any chance of manumission. The
people so forcibly transported have been estimated to number anything from 10 million to
30 million. Those who were captured were the young and virile Africans, the very class on
whom the development of the continent would have devolved.
5.
The chaos accompanying the slave trade retarded the African march towards
development, progress and the advancement in science and technology. In fact, the period
of the slave trade was the period of retrogression. While Africa and Europe were almost at
par in terms of development up to the fifteenth century when great empires such as those of
Ghana, Mali, Songhai, Kanem-Borno, Benin, Ife, Oyo and Great Zimbabwe flourished, the
slave trade destroyed all that was left of the African achievement and civilization of which
ancient Egypt, Meroe and Axum were historic manifestations. The chaos attendant on
European onslaught on Africa softened African resistance to imperialism and the eventual
European partition and the colonial administration finally concluded the African experience
of subjugation. This colonial imposition did not go unchallenged.
6. lein African resistance leaders such as Samori Toure of the Mandinkas, Sultan Attahiru
I of the Sokoto Caliphate, Jaja of Opobo, Chaka the Zulu, Lobengula of the Ndebeles and
the great Menelik of Ethiopia fought gallant battles against superior arms with the exception
of Menelik's Ethiopia, most of the African states succumbed to imperialism. But this was
after the loss of millions of African lives.
7.
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, do I need to remind you of the millions of
Africans who lost their lives resisting the seizure of their countries? To the colonial powers,
African lives were expendable. In fact the doctrine prevailing then was massive infliction of
injury and casualties on their helpless victims because it was erroneously conjectured that
Africans did not value their lives. This strange doctrine led almost to the disappearance, of
the Hereros in the former German South-West Africa (now Namibia), while Angola was
reduced to wilderness by the Portuguese as a result of four centuries of slave raiding and
colonial exploitation.
8. The struggle for independence in many parts of Africa, particularly in such places as
the Cameroons, Algeria, Ethiopia and the entire Southern-African region was characterized
by extreme violence with consequent loss of lives of millions of Africans. The recent
violence visited on Africans in the Front Line States in Southern Africa is too recent to need
reiteration here. But for the avoidance of doubt, a recent Commonwealth report on Apartheid
Terrorism puts the war-related death toll in Southern Africa at 1.5 million and the cost of
South Africa's distabilization of the Front Line States since 1980 at a staggering $45 billion.
14
15