time, the Atlantic Slave Trade had lasted four centuries. The loss to Africa taking into account those
who died in the wars and in transit in Africa and on the Atlantic crossing, not to mention the Arab
Slave Trade, was over 20 million.
COLONIALISM
Britain turned against the slave trade, but not against other forms of slavery and crimes
against humanity. Europeans eventually gave up the slave trade because the prospect of exploiting
the labour, land and other resources of Africa became increasingly more attractive than the slave
trade. In the transition from the slave trade to colonialism, the Europeans used African involvement
in the slave trade as argument that they were not part of the civilized world, and as such were not
covered in international law. Thus the Congress of Berlin drew up plans for the partition of Africa
without a single African power being represented. Partition was regulated under international law
in so far as it concerned the relationship between different European States; the relationship between
them and African peoples was outside the law.
52092 yns lo noil
ob ban ylalboa to side view odi to gainiunobu o
The wars of conquest, for the most part were crimes against humanity in their ruthlessness,
and genocide. Atrocities in the Congo Free State are well documented; so also the case against the
Germans in Namibia, Tanganyika and the Cameroon by the allied victors at the end of World War
I. This does not mean that the record of the victors in the expropriation of land in British South
Africa, Rhodesia, Kenya, or by the Portuguese in Angola and Mozambique, and the forced labour
and forced conscription for service in the trenches of Europe in winter, and the carrier corps in East
Africa, were any better than that of the Germans.
NEOCOLONIALISM
ЗЛАЯТ ДУА12 ЯНТ
12 ori indi og orexingobs of wola aaw bhow adT
29 The League of Nations began the process of seeking to bring colonialism under international
regulation and show up its aberrations as crimes against humanity. The territories taken from the
Germans were placed under Mandates involving some degree of international supervision. Thus, for
example, Namibia passed from the German frying pan into South African fire. The hypocrisy
notwithstanding, the international community began to call colonialism into question because of its
denial of freedom, lack of opportunities, neglect of economic development and impoverishment
through ruthless economic exploitation. Colonialism was exposed as a crime against humanity.
ylingib nemur lo fainab ads to justxa
bhoy Europeans powers conceded political independence but have retained control over the
economies of Africa integrated into the World System in a position of dependence. The world has
so far refused to recognize that neocolonialism, like the slave trade and colonialism before it, is a
crime against humanity; that the social, economic and tech. gap separating Africa from Europe has
widened immeasurably; that Africa is no longer able to feed itself or cope with any drought; some
countries collapsed or are on the verge of collapse. The international community has so far rejected
calls for a new international Economic order allowing for a more just system of international trade
and more justice in the pricing of primary products relative to manufactured goods.
BREAKING THE VICIOUS CIRCLE
Perhaps eventually the world will recognize neocolonialism as a crime against humanity and
seek other forms of exploitation to keep Africa dependent and underdeveloped, making it a perpetual
source of cheap labour, producer of whatever raw material Europe has need of, and surviving on
Food Aid and Development Aid.
ammed pood
The call for Reparations is an attempt to break through the vicious circle. It is a search for
a more just international order, a redistribution of surplus funds now invested on armaments,
pollution of the environment and unnecessary wars and threats of wars. If the international
community can perceive that what Africa needs is not Structural Adjustment Programme that over
devalues our currency but fails to produce the expended level of investment, but Reparations to be
invested specifically on infrastructure particularly in education, the development of Africa will prove
more beneficial to the world than underdevelopment and dependence.
THE HOLOCAUST AND AFRICA
The demand for Reparations involves comparison between the fate of Africa and the
Holocaust. Can anything in history be compared in scale and criminality to the crime of the
Holocaust? Those directly hit by the Holocaust will insist that nothing can be so compared, but this
is because we are allowing the world to forget the factor of crime against humanity and the
international order involved in the Slave Trade, colonialism and Neocolonialism.
Let me conclude by pointing out that the comparison is well founded. The Germans
themselves tried to involve Africa in the so-called Final Solution. Before deciding on the gas
Chambers, the original idea was to transport the jews into works camps in Madagascar, then under
the control of the puppet regime of France. When the tide of war turned and the Allies began to
emerge victorious, before deciding to create Israel in Palestine, an earlier plan was to create it in
Cyrenaica in Eastern Libya. It is in the nature of colonialism that neither the Germans nor the
victorious Allies considered it necessary to consult Africans before including them in the search for
the final solution.
lim srce no bien
глоб
yhalugoq el sadw nonsm of
on
boh zussy berbud soul a novo zgold
ob to noillion adi o equiq & quouindo ylize
42
43