B)
Compensation for material and social destruction during the Slaving Holocaust: houses,
villages, cities, mines, farms, markets, etc., which vanished in the course of procuring slaves
for Arabs and Europeans.
C) Indemnities for all wars and all campaigns of pacification waged by Europeans and Arabs
anblue on Black peoples and nations. to noissyni
To se
D)
E)
F)
για
eze
H)
Compensation for resources expropriated (animal, vegetable and mineral): i. e. cattle, sheep,
goats, etc.; cotton, rubber, palm produce, etc.; gold, tin, copper, iron, petroleum, etc.
Back pay for work done, both unpaid and underpaid, both as slave labour in the Diaspora
and forced labour in Africa. of
zuoliutera brs auovsing tot anoi
Compensation for lives lost... the hundreds of millions of blacks who died through slaving,
conquest, colonization, pacification and the wars of decolonization. For instance, the
hundreds of thousands of Herero of Namibia who the German Imperial army exterminated
in what proved to be a dressed rehearsal for the Nazi extermination of six million Jews; the
10 million Congolese who were killed by the agents of Belgium's King Leopold II, while
being forced to collect rubber; all the blacks killed in the wars of independence fought by
the Mau-Mau, the PAIGC, FRELIMO, etc.
mobni bisq
bisq ynism
G) 25 Compensation for distabilization and eradication of Black Cultures through forced
Europeanization and Arabization.
Ignitool bas tasupnoo answ badloverqu
Punitive damages for the slander and defamation of the Black race, slander which led to our
bns gnbeing despised, and which contributed to our loss of self-confidence. The central theme of
this slander has been the claim that the Black Race -- the very one which initiated civilization
in the world -- is primitive and has contributed nothing to the world.
Opportunity cost for what we would have made of the people and resources of which we
were forcibly deprived.
ano ads of besigologs over ons
I
Interest on the total compensation for the above items. to noisquooo bus supo
ol
bos sigologs 15 ton bowl or bloodz
ESTIMATE OF REPARATIONS
I)
J)
abhow de A bas na
d mont
North Korea's demand for $5 bn for a current population of some 20m, for 35 years of
occupation and exploitation should give us an idea of the Black World could demand for 500 years
for some 500m people. The comparable amount could be approximately $2000 bn. But that would
be just the principal -- what we should have been paid in the cause of the 500 years, but were not.
bovlovni
On average, that principal has been old for 250 years. At 5 per cent compound interest, each
$1m of that principal would now be worth $198.3 bn, or approximately $200 bn. Which is roughly
what sub-Sahara Africa allegedly owes to aid givers and international banks. At 5 per cent compound
interest, the principal of $2000 bn would by now be worth $1/2 bnbn! Compared to that total, the
world current debt is insignificant -- a mere 0.00004 per cent, or 40 micro per cent, or 40 millionths
of one per cent of the reparations which are due us.
These calculations of compensation have been based on the North Korean claims. Considering
the far greater scope and intensity of the damage inflicted on the Black World, the principal of the
debt to the Black World would be considerably greater. By the time our scholars quantify the items
of our claims, we might find that even $100,000 bn is a conservative estimate of the principal. If
so, principal and interest would total $25 bnbn or more. In any case, the reparations which are due
to the Black World are in the $bnbn order of magnitude.
WHAT TO DO WITH THE REPARATIONS
When we secure the reparations, what might we use the funds for? I would suggest that we
pay off any genuine debt owed by the Black World to international banks and aid agencies; and use
the rest to create a Black World Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
gnol avad
HOW NOT TO GET REPARATIONS
abm/Late last year, I wrote a "Letter to Europe" in the maiden issue of Liber, a European Review
of Books which appears in five European languages. In that piece, "Imperialism and its inheritance",
I drew attention to a debt "which is owed Africa by Europe for five centuries of slave and forced
labour, for vast lands with forest and mineral wealth, all of which were commandeered for the
development of Europe." I then recommended a project "to secure from Europe reparations for this,
reparations which will be used to financed the reconstruction and development of Africa." I was
surprised and saddened when a friend of mine, an African, equated this demand for reparations with
begging for foreign aid. loght
OM szil
mot
Sanoitelugog sletenings noileniumsize bas nolaugas Jesup to
Lest some others in the Black World should misconstrue this conference's demand for
reparations as begging for aid, let me emphasize that reparation is not aid: it is compensation exacted
for past injuries. Aid is for pitied beggars; reparation is for those strong enough to exact it. Nobody
pays reparations to a crippled beggar; when you tire of his importuning, you kick him out of your
way. Only to those they respect or need do people pay reparations.
bna no
maines
abinal If we want reparations, we are obliged to create the conditions under which reparations can
be exacted. Until we are respected and feared; until European and Arab Worlds need our goodwill;
until we bring enough moral and practical pressures to bear on them, we can expect no reparations.
Such is the lesson of the Jewish and the Korean experiences.
10 au baimp 01 2
dous time Anisos even of
oil lon ob
ba mad
Now, what are the prospects that our demand today for reparations will be listened to, let
alone met? Who pays reparations to victims who are eager for the goodwill of their victimizers?
Who pays reparations to whiners and crybabies who shun responsibility for their future? Who pays
reparations to flatterers, fawners, grovelers and self-abasers? Who pays reparations to self-confused
ZE 36
37