gone so be sinu laim ow
THE AFRICAN DEBT CRISIS AND THE ISSUE OF REPARATIONS BY S. E. N.
OKOH, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS &
STATISTICS, UNIVERSITY OF BENIN, BENIN CITY, NIGERIA
bis
I.
INTRODUCTION
bodyna
mob
The economies of the developing countries have been the most hard hit by the on-
going debt crisis. The economic growth of these developing world, especially, that of the
developing countries of Africa has been uneven. Those countries are struggling to get their
economies on the growth path but the economic policies which have been prescribed to bring
about the quick cure appear not to be working fast enough. Africa being the largest continent
mwobna
with the least developed categories of nations appears to be the most threatened.
Experts have, at various international academic fora, been advocating for structural
adjustment policies and debt relief policies involving debt rescheduling, interest rate
capitalization and reduction, debt forgiveness, debt default and outright debt repudiation.
Some of the structural adjustment policies have been implemented in some of the African
countries with all the attendant sacrifices that go with it without any visible measure of
success. However, it could be said without contradiction that one of the reasons the measures
taken failed to provide the quick relief expected was the failure of the developed countries
to provide the capital inflow associated with the envisaged economic policies.
1st bar
Insiontua
Ban avibaido
The failure of the industrialized countries to help provide effective debt relief to the
African countries has galvanized African-American intellectuals and their African brothers
to demand for what is called reparation to the African countries.
ba
Reparation may be defined as a proposed repayment or compensation to the African
countries for the past injustice meted to them by the colonial masters. The payment
compensates for the expropriation of human, material and natural resources of the African
countries. The black slave provided slave labour to develop European and American
economies. These slaves were forcefully removed from their African families to Europe and
America with severe tortures and deprivations. While, many of them died on their way,
others survived to tell the ugly story of slavery. It is also on record that the mercantilist
economic philosophy advocated and practiced naked economic exploitation of the African
colonies for the benefit of the "mother country". Now there is the advocacy that this
economic rape of African economies be assessed and payment made by the perpetrators of
this crime.
ayo
This paper examines the African debt crisis and the possibility of using reparations
as a strategy of foreign exchange inflow from the former colonial masters. The paper is
divided into four sections:
II
Section I is the introduction.
no noqmi bas
Section II examines the nature of the African economy, while or more upst
Section III takes an in depth analysis of the African debt crisis and problems of
reparation. Finally,
Section IV concludes the paper.
THE AFRICAN ECONOMY
The economies of African countries have been described as the "most vulnerable and
least developed" in the world. The reason is that the continent accounts for two-thirds of the
United Nations designated "least developed countries" (LDCs).
The major problem of the African economy is the nature of its structure. Ake (1981,
Adedeji (1981), and the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, ECA (1989) have
all identified the basic structural problems of the African economy. They see the basic
problems to be concerned with the pattern of production, consumption, and exchange. These
constitute the most fundamental causes of African underdevelopment and retrogression. ECA
summarized the bottlenecks as:
i.
100
ii.
The
iii.
The predominance of subsistence and commercial activities;
narrow, disarticulate production base with ill-adapted technology;
The neglected informal sectors;
orla (009
ตอ
diwỡng
iv.
The degraded environment;
V.
nivloz
Spreds
insta
vii.
Lopsided development due to urban bias of public policies generally and development
tum Tavo od taum yrit
policies in particular;
vi. The fragmentation of the African economy;
15m 20
amaldorg
The openness and excessive dependance of the economies including dependence on
external factor inputs; and
viii. Weak institutional capabilities.
12
出版
but suffice it to say that these are the factoral
hajdeb nom od
Given the space and time constraint, it is not possible to dwell on each of the above
have made Africa underdeveloped. As a
producer of primary commodities, the African lives at the mercy and subject to the
20
20
21