we proceed to the International Court of Justice? How can reparations be effected, and what
shall we consider the acceptable minimum?
Mr Vice-President, Mr Chairman, the questions are many, the answers are few, and the
obstacles are numerous. The demands for reparations may, at this early stage, appear to be
merely the dream of an out-of-step idealist, of some one who is not conversant with the
increasingly harsh realities of the complex international economic and political environment.
Some other people who may indeed mean well, will say that this is some form of heresy, that
we seek to do that which has wisely not been done before. And a few others are likely to feel
that we are determined merely to disrupt the normal course and conduct of international
relations, to put blacks at war with white, to re-open wounds which are better left to heal on
their own.
We hear all this, and we take consolation in the fact that those who do not dream do not do
anything at all, that the first man to suggest that the world is round was also accused of
heresy, and that all those who have dared to demand justice, including Moses, Mahatma
Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr. and Nelson Mandela, were also at one time considered to
be trouble makers seeking to cause social disharmony. Samuel Johnson, the notable English
essayist, aptly captured the mood of this Conference when he said that "Nothing will ever
be attempted if all possible objections must first be overcome." Our intentions are noble, our
cause is just, and our methods are equitable. As always, history will offer the final verdict.
But even while we await the final verdict of history, we must not fail to vigorously put
forward our case to the contemporary society. Slavery and colonialism are historical facts
not the figments of fertile imaginations; millions of our brothers and sisters were killed and
our economies, our cultures and our societies were completely devastated - this is the truth,
not the fruit of a creative fiction writer's pen. For over five hundred years, we have been
the world's favourite victims, exploited by an astonishing number of nations - no one
disputes these facts, which have been carefully chronicled by historians.
All that we ask is that these wrongs be officially acknowledged as contributing substantially
to the horrendous plight of Africans all over the world, that some gesture of atonement and
restitution be made to survivors of a holocaust which has gone on since the fifteenth century,
and that a process of systematically re-integrating Africans into the world productive
economy be embarked upon by the international community.
Those who say that we are committing heresy are obviously uninformed about the history of
reparations. As the world has come to accept the principle of restitution, Germany continues
12
to pay the state of Israel millions of dollars every year, a state which, when the crimes were
committed, did not even exist. The United States, Canada and Australia have all paid token
reparations to the indigenous inhabitants of their territories who were murdered and
expropriated during and after colonization. The United Nations has already passed a
resolution that Iraq must pay reparations for invading and destroying Kuwait. And the United
o
States has begun to pay compensation to its citizens of Japanese origin who were illegally and
unjustly detained in concentration camps during the Second World War. Why, may I ask,
is our case different, difficult or any more sensitive?
davan
6
We do not expect the world to immediately come around to our position. We do not think
that victory will be ours tomorrow, or even the day after. It is said that the journey of a
thousand years begins with but one step. We will today take what I believe is the important
and first step. Our journey is long and our task is difficult, but we are confident that the
outcome of this conference will determine what the next step must be. We must keep the
momentum going. We cannot allow a complacent, self-satisfied and self-indulgent world to
so easily forget who bore the burden of its own development.
ad of
igilab viteng me 1
Isubivibni barnsonco
-
Let me end this brief welcome address by quoting one of the most illustrious African-
is brief welco
Americans who ever lived. It was James Baldwin who said: "I know that what I am asking
is impossible. But in our time, as in every time, the impossible is the least that one can
demand and one is after all emboldened by the spectacle of human history in general, and
American-Negro history in particular, for it testifies to nothing less than the perpetual
achievement of the impossible." Mr. Vice-President, Mr Chairman, Distinguished Ladies and
Gentlemen, I thank you all for honouring our invitation. And I wish all of you very fruitful
deliberation.
signo botar om 19
lliw i suzzi Tojam ano svitsiini blod etdi 10 sloidA OM more ordug
bas noites not boon oilyaw neslo voy a ni andalusis at a consisto aid motino
namud zeol namus nos olis ad not Isiouto ai air availed Inoue doum worl
to amist ni bolinkup ad vllo Jonso noile
Venom
boggida bns bolonm u Show Ay yftit bas borbnud mot Juods so
noltoo bris,ooosdo ano que ori ni analgeo is 101 disown of pita si echina
in
20/T betodu w york doir of noiteving all show am oft ni anoisinsig
odi ni bobnel vilanit snow bus sgszzsq olbbim ad gniaub to bim art grub sib jon bib onw
9dT noizzimune to sonado yas tuorbiw sbativise to asvil of beonsins snow
A
13