RESOLUTION
The assembly, called the World Conference on Reparation to Africa and Africans in
Diaspora sponsored by Bashorun M. K. O. Abiola, resolves to:
1.
2.
Set up an organization of Africans and descendants of Africans to work
towards reparations for damage done to the motherland and her descendants
by slave trade, colonialism and imperialism, and ano
Produce a clear statement of aim which will be circulated worldwide within
a period of six months from the end of this conference and or be used as a
basis of the address to be presented to the OAU summit in Abuja in June
1991. An eleven-man Steering Committee was named to implement the
resolutions.
gniwoll
WELCOME ADDRESS BY CHIEF M. K. O. ABIOLA, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF
EXECUTIVE CONCORD PRESS OF NIGERIA Ltd. AT THE WORLD
CONFERENCE ON REPARATIONS TO AFRICA AND AFRICANS IN THE DIASPO-
RA HELD ON THURSDAY AND FRIDAY 13th AND 14th DECEMBER, 1990 AT THE
NIGERIAN INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, VICTORIA ISLAND,
LAGOS.
Your Excellency, the Vice-President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,
Mr Chairman,
Members of the Armed Forces Ruling Council,
Honourable Ministers,
Members of the Council of States,
Your Excellencies, Members of the Diplomatic Corps,
My Lords, Spiritual and Temporal,
Your Royal Highnesses,
slabasM
Distinguished Participants,
зить?
Ladies and Gentlemen,
elodije
olqooq radio smo2
silt ob
ob of also ow
Tant
read W
He is gaidiyas
dw zodi Ils tadi bas yesed
bne lgni aritu nihsMinibas
brus ponos ar
no boxinagio sizomye bruszonato q
BETEWA SOTO donoré sibom-blum &nb
ensoil or not to add sis
we zien of 19,adulo alboa noitexingo latomayor-non to U
-ovom zasmi & smoted fliw znosio algunes er o
We are gathered here today, as much by personal choice as by the burden of historic respon-
sibility, for a unique occasion. We are called here to do that which has not been attempted
before, to break the deafening conspiracy of silence to which the issue of reparation has for
too long been condemned.
I hope we all appreciate the fact that this is not just another conference, where we meet to
discuss a fleeting issue of little or no relevance to our daily life, or to the future of our peo-
ple. This cannot be allowed to degenerate into a well attended jamboree where a few over
used discussants scored intellectual points before the clicking cameras of the world press. If
that is what you have come for, you will soon discover that you have come to the wrong
place.
daco es bagbe
od eno
des swish ILA
Jadue griludra
Our task over the next two days is simply to take the critical issue of reparation to Africa and
cal issue of reparation to Africe or
to Africans in the diaspora up to the top of the agenda of international dialogue and
subsequent global action. We must make a credible and convincing case for reparations, and
of action
then work out a practical, step-by-step blueprint of action. After this Conference, what then?
Do we then involve all African governments and African-American leaders? When does the
Organization of African Unity become involved? What about the United Nations? Or shall
ow ar RA
sigion
29uniinoo ynamis
10
11