Specifically, the conference mandated a select committee headed by Bashorun M. K.
O. Abiola to map out strategies for realizing the dreams of reparations. In this connection,
Bashorun Abiola has undertaken visits with an entourage to Britain, the United States and
Brazil talking to groups with the objective of effecting reparations and exploring ways of
establishing similar bodies where non existed. At the same time, some governments both in
and outside Africa have been penetrated for support on the realization of the goal of
reparations. At the last March conference of the African Bar Association, Bashorun Abiola
was offered a forum to speak on the subject. Other activities continue.
abem
naam yiqmiz anot
THE REPORT of and
For two days in Lagos, the issue of reparations was examined and discussed by
scholars, government officials and social critics from Africa, America, Britain and the
Caribbean. The participants focused on the following issues:
Historical, legal and moral grounds for demanding reparations;
beuf
1.
2.
The nature and extent of the damage and destruction caused by the trilogy of
slave trade, colonialism and neo-colonialism;
3.
The consequences of the trilogy;
4.
The need, and justification and precedence for reparations;
5.
The obstacles to be surmounted; and
6.
The modalities for effecting reparations.
lent of axon Isotong bansang ribus now
sillo gnarling y lo vozidlo ni jasnol or
bad to boot A
belongs
olivo acontos art
no 12 balinU
jalans of quigbolo
wabiw bns uit as of dosage sto sito noifudistelb fools
won yasm tadi bevissen flow of new too
001
gabham silivion to bohinga w boblanico anoitsildig so and
sri to nariaildung,botimi sisi to za boon at to gribot ar
als gabham alivios qu bon of zonissaM
T
nevinn A
bas zohl of holiq" at ind omadi sme si driw
vinns
mor haqA amidong ati Juodi son de box di no zoga
sonol ipsi yd fowl to noisquoso
A
noitudino sto gnarling or baddox
of anotatival batquos bail odwal belin sd ba
immoo svitsizigol msnoqmi no amit mi inioq tudi is
will besta ylab
moet wal nims to
vise od bad ow indolisqisining
aleho jpmi-siswi o no
somes with sosasto s boog pray aw tomu savo si explodova
quo dein ads mon aquorg fould simobes tenores
ni sibal 125W all to noizzimmo gi
ads avia
sw gainsgo dT
low bas zgol
8 flow as aquos
Maried aid no
Que
no sono incomin omosed coniz
dotdw suplummo shoqmi s of bel anodi
em no how adulto potion and
Participants noted that for more than five hundred years, Africa was a victim of slave
trade, followed by colonialism and its more subtle but equally destructive form, neo-
colonialism. This trilogy of slave trade, colonialism and neo-colonialism has caused
irreparable damage to the continent and its people, be they in Africa or in the diaspora. The
trade in slaves involved the transportation of the "fittest and the best of Africa's sons and
daughters" to Europe, the Caribbean and the Americas. This trade in human beings had
several devastating consequences for Africa and Africans. For those who were transported,
the trade in slaves resulted in the loss of their language, their culture and a severance of
family ties. In addition, they were deprived of their human rights and, perhaps most
importantly, the opportunity to develop themselves. The consequences were the lot of those
who survived the arduous journey. Many paid the supreme price. For the continent itself,
the consequences were no less devastating. Slavery led to a depletion of the virile manpower
required for the development of the continent, it led to slave wars and the destruction of the
solidarity among its people. This probably facilitated the colonial penetration and conquest
of the continent.
по be
ST
rn
The trade in slave, it must be emphasized, was not only immoral, it was also
criminal, hence illegal. This criminality continued in colonialism. African lands
the form of
were expropriated, the treasures of Africa were looted, the agricultural and mineral resources
of the continent were expropriated to support the industrial revolution in Europe, and the
African human resources were used in wars that did not concern them. These atrocities did
not end with colonialism, they are being perpetrated and refined in the modern form of
slavery known as neo-colonialism. The criminal factor that links slave trade, colonialism and
adf
neo-colonialism provides the justification for the demand for reparations.
По по
of to suis Ovasontent
2
3