Reparations simply means compensations made for damage done to a state or people
by another state. There is no doubt that tremendous damage has been done to Africa and its
people in and outside the continent by the trilogy. Justice demands that the monstrous damage
be:
Acknowledged;
1.
2.
Atoned for, and
3.
Redressed.
Furthermore, there is an urgent need for the present generation of Africans and people of
African descent to be compensated. History is replete with precedence of reparations.
Notable among these are:
ovala mitof
1.
<-001
2.
bos
woq
3.
4.
510
After WW I, defeated Germany was asked to pay 132 billions marks as
reparations;
los yd bewollo
Following the Second WW, Germany continues to pay the state of Israel
reparations for the holocaust perpetrated on the Jews by Hitler, while
Japanese-Americans received reparations for the persecution and internment
they suffered at the beginning of the war;
The United States, Canada and Australia have all paid token reparations to the
indigenous inhabitants of their territories who were murdered and expropriated
during and after colonization;
More recently, the United Nations passed a resolution that Iraq must pay repa
rations for the invasion and destruction of Kuwait. Reparations, which include
acknowledgement, atonement and recompense is vital to enable Africa and
people of African descent to break out of the vicious circle of economic under
development and the psychological complex of inferiority.
The demand for reparations is not based on sentiment or on the morality of our case.
Nor should it be construed as a request for aid from Europe and America. The demand is
based on the legal right to compensate a people for what the international community must
accept as crime committed.
To make the perpetrators of this crime accept responsibility for the damage done will
not be an easy task. Questions are bound to be raised about two or three main issues;
bas meileignas
First, the legal status of the act at the time the crime was committed; second, the
retroactive nature of our demand, and thirdly the competence of the present generation of
Africans to demand reparations as well as the culpability of the present generation of Europe-
ans and Americans in the crime. If for no other reason, the demand for reparations is valid
and just because the present generation of Africans is still suffering from the impact and the
damage done by the trilogy of slave trade, colonialism and neo-colonialism. They have been
saddled with the responsibility of bearing burdens of these crimes. This is best epitomized
in the Debt Crisis. A linkage exists between the debt crisis and the trilogy.
γιαν
1100 STOW
To realize the demand for reparation, Africans within and outside the continent, must
enunciate a clear strategy. This strategy must be multi-dimensional. One dimension will be
directed at sensitizing Africans the world over on the need and justification for reparations.
The main thrust of this will be to create consensus and solidarity. A second dimension will
be directed at sensitizing the international community, particularly, the peoples and govern-
ment of Europe and America. Here we will need to emphasize that this demand is not predi-
cated on morality but is based on legality.
Several alternative fora were suggested as platform for conducting the campaign for
reparation. One platform was the OAU, another was the creation of a Pan African body.
These efforts could be supported by a Think Tank comprising carefully trained specialists
from among our people to act and serve as a resource base for our leaders. suns bas
wisure
anubiles
dug oved aneshAshutoso xia tuoda to
to bohs
ali to The option of utilizing existing international legal machinery such as the World Court
and International Arbitration was mentioned, but with the caution that the case for reparations
would require very careful preparations. Generally, the point was made that appealing to the
conscience of the international community would not suffice.
brs U
DEFINITION OF THE TERM REPARATIONS
2 BOTTLA
Supinu ai 265 od
Vala adi to visited
-up "Reparation" or "Restitution" simply defined, means compensation made for damage
done to a state or people by another state. It also means the following: meileinolo to as
bas srb.
By Redress;
isbne smit insolib is alzinsonA-na bas aeloda?
Remuneration; Wanoites no seno lepotain di batamuoob bas botalusins
to de c. bus Retribution, and
st to ansunimet luna se moqasib adı ni
T.noisguidua Isinoloo gnitajas
sigma
The concept involves three dimensions:
nosis 10 basm
yebo 1.A Acknowledgement of damage done;
Jadw 2. Atonement for such damage, and
mood 23. doin Redress to halt the continuing implication of such damage. W silqmi aidi
bnU:brow sno ni qu bemmua ad nes
4
5