NOTES BY RICHARD FRANKLIN
AMERICA
It is one thing to feel exploited. But it is important to develop a quantified estimate of the
magnitude of the exploitation. Measurements matter. The discussion of remedies will not be
constructive until serious measurements are produced. So a research program needs to be established.
That will allow other to refute, dispute, and argue over every technical detail. And that is healthy.
Let that technical debate run its course. In the end out of that process will come a sounder basis for
discussion.
Honourable,
Ladies and Gentlemen
Anell Imine
Thank you for the invitation to join you in considering this question of the current policy
Inomuallinb
implications of historical economic relations among nations.
I have long believed that policy analysts have overlooked an important issue, and the debate
on development has, therefore, been incomplete and distorted. Now There are indications that this
oversight is being corrected. What are the practical consequences of past economic injustice? How
can they be accounted for? This conference can contribute to important clarifications, and that can
benefit all parties in the long run.
I am interested in looking at the problem of what we are calling "reparations" or "restitution"
as a technical issue. It is a problem in national income accounts, and in international balance of
payments accounting.
All the parties have until now made policy based on an incomplete understanding of the full
costs and benefits of historic trade, investment, labor and other relations. But now there can be
sufficient technical grasp of the problem to permit economist to estimate the benefits to those who
benefit today from past coerced, unequal exchange transactions.
Use betinU
We have better statistics, as well as better theory. And, we have computers. Before we
enjoyed these fairly recent technical advances, it was not possible to get very far in measuring such
factors as the costs and benefits, even though there have been analysts who intuitively argued that
there had been systematic unjust enrichments resulting from past wrongful economic arrangements
between Africa and major trade and investment partners.
Now analysis can replace intuition. And accounts can be developed and refined. They can
be produced for long historical periods. And they can also be produced annually from now on.
Discussion of reparations, therefore, ought to be as unemotional as possible. It is obviously
an emotion laden subject. But if it is to have practical positive and constructive consequences, then
a rigorous research base is essential.
Let me say, again, that I am interested in justice here, not merely the perceived self interest
of any party. I believe that the world has many examples of relations that might be remedied by
restitution. Indeed, most chronic conflicts within and among nations, seem based, at least, in part, on
grievances that boil down to the feeling that there have been massive unjust enrichments at the
expense of one party's ancestors. And that current distributions of income and wealth are therefore
illegitimate and indefensible.
bos
liud
I see that in East, West, North and South. Someday, I expect that the U. N., or World
Bank/IMF, or some such body will take on the job of monitoring worldwide economic transactions
from this perspective. They will look for deviations from some agreed to standards of just dealings.
And then they will quantify the deviation. And that information will help correct the problems. It will
shed light. And the very act of illuminating these matters will help bring an end to exploitation, and
unequal relations. And it will also help the parties bargain over remedies for past injustices.
When people come to know with some precision, who is benefiting from unjust enrichments,
how they are benefiting, and how much they benefit, it will energize them to put a stop to it. So it's
crucial to know not just that there is exploitation, but how much there is.
itzyb to zmolding
I think a stable, just, well informed world will be a better place for all. It will be more
efficient and it will be more equitable. There will be retributive remedies for past injustices. And the
current holders of unjust enrichments will consider that undesirable. But even then, if they look again,
will see that in a larger sense, they will be better off in a stable world with fewer inarticulated
grievances leading to seemingly irrational political behaviour.
I hope you will decide to set up a technical analytical center. It should undertake the kind of
ongoing, rigorous, impartially reviewed analysis that I have described. It should cooperate with
scholars and policy analysts worldwide.
30
31