9.
The upshot of all this is that never in the course of human history has a people
suffered so much for such a long time in the hands of fellow human beings for no other
cause than avarice and material aggrandizement.
10.
President Léopold Sédar Senghor, that great African Statesman and poet once said
Africans, Jews, and Arabs constitute a trilogy of suffering peoples. But the fact is that of all
these three groups, the suffering of Africans has never really been seriously addressed.
11. Even the granting of independence to African States is nothing more than a tactical
political concession, while the economic exploitation and externally triggered civil wars
continue. Since 1945, the world has witnessed attempts to redress the grievances of at least
the Jews if not those of Arabs. But in spite of our support for the Allies during the Second
World War and despite the Atlantic Charter of Freedom, we Africans, both at home and in
diaspora, had again to fight against great odds to secure the rights which had been solemnly
promised to everybody. That was not all. When the Marshall Plan for the Economic
regeneration of Europe was put in place, we who had been victims of European colonialism
expected in vain a plan that would lead to the joint development of Africa as was the case
of Europe. The point is that from the fifteenth century up till now we have remained
marginalized by the western world to which we have unfortunately been shackled by the
accident of history and by our geographical proximity. Try as we can, Africa and Africans
are not given the same opportunities as other regions and races to actualize themselves.
12.
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, our kith and kin in the black diaspora have not
fared better. The African-Americans in both South and North America have largely been kept
at the periphery of social and economic happening in the New World. Economic and
therefore political power have by and large eluded our people. Those of us in the home
continent have had our energy sapped by the struggle against racism and the battle for
decolonization.
70
26
This struggle for political freedom is almost over except in South Africa itself where there
is institutionalized racism, with a system that is as unjust as it is inhuman. We need, in spite
of the glimmer at the end of apartheid tunnel to redouble our effort at ending apartheid and
to insist that the international community must not do away with the limited arms embargo
and economic sanctions until the process of change becomes irreversible and permanent.
13.
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, our political burden has been replaced by the
economic yoke of a crippling debt which continues to increase by compound interest no
matter our effort at amortization. We have come to a situation where development has
generally grounded to a halt and a situation where most African countries exist and live for
debt repayment. In spite of our grinding poverty, our continent has witnessed massive capital
transfer to the rich nations of the north in the past decade while our people are being reduced
to economic serfs in their own countries.
14.
W
For how long will our people stand for this without bringing down this evil edifice
of an unjust economic system imposed on the whole world to benefit a fraction of mankind?
15.
We Africans, whether at home or in diaspora have suffered too much largely because
we were divided through the force and brutality of former slave drivers and owners. A
yawning chasm separated Africans at home from our kit and kin abroad in the past. Out of
ignorance and misinformation, our brothers in diaspora looked at those at home as uncouth
and uncivilized natives whose ancestors were responsible for their plight in the new world.
The Africans at home in reaction felt they were the authentic inheritors of all that was
glorious and edifying in the Africans past. Our common enemies exploited this division.
xilidom
16. The political struggle has largely been fought and won, what we need now is
freedom. We demand that Africa should be granted economic freedom through debt forgiving
and total debt write-offs. We demand African Marshall Plan to compensate for the century
of abuse and neglect. We demand full equality with all men for African at home and in
diaspora. We call on all the countries in Europe and the Americas to compensate Africa for
the untold hardship and exploitation that the continent had ben subjected to in the past.
17. We make these demands because services of our forefathers in the American
plantations were unrewarded and unpaid for. We make these demands because the
exploitation of Africa during the period of colonial rule further impoverished us and
enhanced the development of the West. We make these demands because this is in the
interest of mankind. Remember when that humanity suffers a little, somewhere, all humanity
suffers a little. The world cannot continue like this with the vast majority under pain while
a few luxuriate in affluence.
18.
The time to make a fresh start is now and Europe and the Americas must redress the
imbalance in their relation with Africa and Africans. It is time for descendants of the
oppressors and the oppressed to open a new chapter based on mutually rewarding and
beneficial relationship.
19. Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, we must not give up the struggle for total
emancipation of the black race from poverty, want, social degradation, economic
16
17