O NOTES BY H. E. DUDLEY THOMPSON,
JAMAICAN HIGH COMMISSIONER TO NIGERIA
nige omnino en mellanolopo singoon lliw blow as vllaunovo eq
Ladies and Gentlemen,
bou ba
TO
We have all be summoned here by History, and our sense of Justice. The moral and other
claims by Pan-Africanists and others to the readjustment by Reparations has been hammered out
slowly but clearly on the anvils of justice through the years. s
Som &
anon I must confess that I appear before this distinguished and erudite audience with reasonable
grounds for my trepidation. Whereas I feel greatly honoured for this opportunity to speak, I put far
less weight on your judgement in selecting me to discuss this topic of Reparations for Slavery. I can
think of no qualification except perhaps one which can serve me as credential in my support of this
selection. You are at least, however, entitled to know something about why I have consented to
share with you, thoughts on the subjects. You will note that this is purely a personal contribution
and neither my government nor my country can be held to have endorsed my views on the matter.
My government has not express a policy on Reparation. I should commence by pointing out that I
intend to speak of is a Relationship between an International movement, Pan-Africanism itself very
elusive of definition on the one hand; and a just Claim for readjustment arising out of one of the
most nefarious episode of modern history i.e. Slavery, on the other hand. The single credential that
I introduce as descriptive of my qualification, is, that I have lived long enough to have observed all
the phases of colonialism in a passage through to neo-colonialism which many mistakenly describe
as Independent. Perhaps I have been removed far enough from the actual period of slavery the better
to judge its pernicious pervasive and continuous results. I have had the opportunity over these many
years of working together with some of our great Pan-Africanists like George Padmore, Dr
Azikiwe, Kwame Nkrumah, Jomo Kenyatta, the late H. O. A. Davies, T. R. McKonnen and others.
This to a great extent made me mentally aware of the full injustices of slavery and enable me to see
through the spectrum of history the relationship between our claim today and the cruelties of
yesterday out of which this claim arises.
uand 01
-
Land
History shows that this Rape of Africa, for that was what it was, records the transportation
of the "finest and the best of Africa's sons" that they could lay their hand on some millions of us
across the Middle Passage to the Caribbean and the Americas. History shows that these Sons of
Africa deprived of their language, culture and normal family ties, not to mention what is popularly
known today as Human Rights were deprived of the opportunity to develop themselves. One can
easily conjure up a picture of the million of dead human beings over a three hundred years period,
the mountains of corpses who never the chance under slavery to learn even to read or write. It is
difficult to forgive and impossible to forget how much talent, how much genius, must have gone to
waste. But God is Great and Merciful. We have survived. Climbing up from the bottom of the sea
of lost opportunity, we are here today. We claim in the name of Justice that descendants of those
who have been deprived, should be given the full opportunities of Human Rights and Justice.
Not only did Africa suffer from the loss of her Sons and Daughters but the Caribbean/America
and much of the Third World saw these Sons and Daughters struggle against the odds. Up until this
day, the economy as well as the psychology and lack of technology have left their marks on our
people. We seek now a process of readjustment to remove this disfigurement. Justice demands that
the present generation of the Third World inhabitants of the south, in the north-south dichotomy be
given relief and their just entitlement.
On the emancipation of slavery several millions of pounds sterling was paid as a settlement,
and to whom was it paid! To the slave masters as compensation. They, were being readjusted for loss
of property. The slaves whose sinews had helped to build the cities and universities of Britain,
France, Spain and other European countries from the sugar, rum, tobacco, and other produce of the
soil, waited many years, indeed generations, for their university and their descendants are still waiting
for the technology that will help them to enter the 20th century on more equal terms.
Pan-Africanism to a great extent has been blunted by the need for a common denominator on
which to write the political interest of the various elements of the African diaspora. There has been
largely merely the rejection of racial discrimination and a general resentment against a white ruling
minority that held these groups loosely together. This limitation has severely retarded the drive
necessary to alleviate:
-
Our failing economy today;
bozausaib golod sabi sa izu
yllution to ybod inshasa-a-d
-abral Our increasing foreign debt today;
101 noitsbrood ai thodaildings and
The widening gap of underdevelopment today;dio animisquam
The outdistancing of technological advancement.
20 kgolonda
ubs no emil smo solet izum inomizulbs ads to a T
These are all common denominators of clear political concern.
Wingizni ne ido ai
100
One of our immediate requirements needed now is an aggressive policy of demanding equality
in educating black technocrats as a pre-condition for the preparations of our people to enter the 20th
century with greater confidence and ability, and equal footing.
(how a sd bluo
44
45