That kind of initiative coming out of this conference, could prepare the way for the kind of
serious discussions about income and wealth imbalances, and how they got that way. And it can,
then, offer a basis for remedies on a scale that can truly accelerate development. Jumping ahead a
n the for
bit, let me briefly comment on the form that eventual reparations might take. And then, finally, I
would at some risk comment on the matter of internal discipline and sound management.
2001
Reparations, and I hope a less emotionally charged, neutral name can be found, should be
applied in investment forms. Payments that are eventually negotiated, should be put into:
lanolomanu as ed of
viting libing sved of ali i jul loodus nobel noisome ne
leitaszes al sand does it s
mads
Education and training,
Health and
Capital formation and enterprise development.
30
blow
..
Massive payments to individuals, from any kind of pool, is a less desirable mode. The original
en short hos almiw
exploitation didn't deprive of subsistence. They managed to subsist. What it did was divert the
capital that they would have used to strengthen themselves and their communities. Therefore, what
reparations should do is restore that capital in a way that accelerate sustainable development and
built strength. It should be used to accelerate the development of crucial institution, and to develop
a broad class of skilled, knowledgeable, disciplined workers, technicians, managers, scientists and
professionals. And it should be used to develop the small and middle size businesses that can be the
backbone of broad economic growth and diversification.
I think those prescriptions make sense universally, north, south, east and west. I hope as a
guest, I am not being presumptuous, or out of line, to simply underline the importance of broad
improvements in behaviour for any people seeking to accelerate their development.
If leaders anywhere, can find the means to inspire everyone to improve their basic life styles,
then that group is likely to find greater success, whatever it's objectives.
These internal improvements, together with enhanced resources from all sources, including
from reparations can produce economic success. But without the basic commitment to order,
democracy, justice, equity, efficiency, humanity at all levels of any society, additional capital is
likely to be used sub-optimally.
To summarize, a group of senior economists and policy analysts should be established in
existing or new research centers to examine these issues.
bad
LA
box
Finally a word on development. Here let me refer to the situation in African America, in the
e noi stiolae of bas or
United States. A case can be made for reparations there. And a fact based, analytically grounded
proposal can be offered for policy remedies. Intuitively, it seems obvious that money is owed.
Perhaps, several trillion dollars.
1ed ai odw
Diw wond of
bas
navadi wod
But we African Americans, it seems to me, also have to use our existing tools to solve the
aviour that have refle
problems of dysfunctional behaviour that have retarded our development. We need to:
этоді
edi ba
niegs zool yed
seal
ated sad lliw bhow borolni low
Obey the law;
mervitudinis od lliwoodTaldsliups som ad lliw ti bas inslots
Study and stay in school;
isbianɔɔ lliw atoms izuju to blod insis
Refrain from early parenthood;
and invest;
tied ad lliw yaransa gala ni tart soe lliw
Save and invest;
En nolika vlanins of gribas asonaveng
Improve our discipline generally, individually and as a group;
Take common sense health precautions, and stay fit;
to bobl suit all
Participate fully as citizens.
iw 518190ooo blunds 11
1 sdt gaylene bow
loob lliw woy sqod. I
river vllainsqm auonogh gniogno
abiwblow alay lens voiloq bae analodba
32
33