Jody
эрлено
Peach
8
World's counterpart of the Wailing Wall of the Jews in Jerusalem.
2. The institution of a Holocaust Memorial Day, to be observed
each year throughout the Black World, as a day of mourning and
remembrance, with solemn ceremonies at local holocaust monuments.
Perhaps this date, April 27, on which we have assembled here,
sebne should be designated the Holocaust Memorial Day of the Black World.
90
deed
med
e
a
3.
The creation of a Black Heritage Education Curriculum, to
teach us our true history, and thereby restore our self-worth as
descendants of the pioneers of world civilization, and supply us
with the antidote to the White Supremacist Ideology and its
damaging effects. This would produce a post-holocaust Black
personality, one cured of the debilities inflicted by the holocaust
experience.
to sigo 4. The creation of a Black World League of Nations, with its
complex of institutions, to take care of our collective security,
to foster solidarity and prosperity among us, and to prevent the
been infliction of any future damage on any part of the Black World.
-002 B
These measures, and others like them, would teach us who we
are, what we have been and ought to become, and would promote and
to be concretize Black World solidarity. Having made such internal
bed changes in ourselves and in our world, we would be better able to
foster in the entire global order two key changes:
ew gen
binow I a.
1
benim
-
A different view of global history, particularly of the last
500 years, and of the millennia before 525 BC -- that calamitous
year when Black Egypt fell permanently to white invaders, leaving
all of Africa open for incursions from West Eurasia; and
structural changes that would block the possibility of future
damage of the sorts for which we now seek reparations.
02 31b.
to
To conclude, let me note that, for us, no global order would
alexbe truly new without apologies for ancient wrongs, without an end
to continuing wrongs, without reparations, without restitutions,
without the creation of systems and mechanisms that would ensure
that the holocaust we have been through never happens again. Our
crusade for reparations would be completed only when we achieve a
global order without necrophobia, without alien hegemony over any
Xos18