6
about in our understanding of our history, of ourselves, and of our
destiny; the change it will bring about in our place in the world.
Now, we who are campaigning for reparations cannot hope to
do Now,
to
of
adeb change the world without changing ourselves. We cannot hope to
change the world without changing our ways of seeing the world, our
ways of thinking about the world, our ways of organizing our world,
our ways of working and dreaming in our world. All these, and
more, must change for the better. The type of Black Man and Black
Woman that was made by the holocaust -- - that was made to feel
inferior by slavery and then was steeped in colonial attitudes and
values that type of Black will not be able to bring the post-
reparation global order into being without changing profoundly in
the process that has begun; that type of Black will not be even
appropriate for the post-reparation global order unless thoroughly
and suitably reconstructed. So, reparation, like charity, must
begin with ourselves, with the making of the new Black person, with
the making of a new Black World. How?
Juode
26
end
andi
--
We must begin by asking ourselves: What weaknesses on our
side made the holocaust possible? Weaknesses of organization?
Weaknesses of solidarity? Weaknesses of identity? Weaknesses of
If we do not correct such
mentality? Weaknesses of behaviour?
weaknesses, even if we got billions
billions of billions of dollars in
reparations money, even if we got back all our expropriated land,
we would fritter it all away yet again, and recycle it all back
into alien hands.
We must therefore find out what deficiencies in our sense of
identity, what quirks in our mentality, what faults in our feelings
of solidarity made it possible for some of us to sell some of us
into bondage; still make
make it possible for us to succumb to the
divide and conquer tactics of our exploiters; make it possible for
all too many of us to be afflicted with Negro necrophobia
counterpart of the self-hating disease of the anti-semitic Semite.
Twenty years ago, when I was writing The West and the Rest of Us,
I gave it a subtitle: "White Predators, Black Slavers and the
African Elite". That was to serve notice that we cannot overlook
--
our