ziedi
10
dsdw
ゴ
36d3
Jaum
bas
3
marks. After WWII, the victorious Allies filed reparations claims
against Germany for $320 billion. Reparations were also levied on
Italy and Finland. The items for which these claims were made
included bodily loss, loss of liberty, loss of property, injury to
professional careers, dislocation and forced emigration, time spent
in concentration camps because of racial, religious and political
persecution. Others were the social cost of war, as represented by
the burden from loss of life, social disorder, and institutional
disorder; and the economic cost of war, as represented by the
capital destroyed and the value of civilian goods and services
foregone to make war goods. Payments were made in cash and kind
goods, services, capital equipment, land, farm and forest products;
and penalties were added for late deliveries.
Perhaps the most famous case of reparations was that paid by
Germany to the Jews. These were paid by West Germany to Israel for
crimes against Jews in territories controlled by Hitler's Germany,
and to individuals to indemnify them for persecution. In the
initial phase, these included $2 billion to make amends to victims
of Nazi persecution; $952 million in personal indemnities; $35.70
per month per inmate of concentration camps; pensions for the
survivors of victims; $820 million to Israel to resettle 50,000
bas pr Jewish emigrants from lands formerly controlled by Hitler. All
that was just the beginning. Other, and largely undisclosed,
payments followed. And even in 1992, the World Jewish Congress in
New York announced that the newly unified Germany would pay
compensation, totalling $63 million for 1993, to 50,000 Jews who
suffered Nazi persecution but had not been paid reparations because
they lived in East Germany.
betial
по
Isinaga
ed
901
With such precedents of reparations to non-Black peoples in
four continents, it would be sheer racism for the world to
discountenance reparations claims from the Black World.
But our
search for reparations must, of necessity, be
tailored to our peculiar condition, to our peculiar experience.
Some others may need
may need only that their ancestral home
range be
returned to them; some others that they be
some others that they be compensated for the