7
bevisado
melsau our complicity, as Black Slavers and as the African Elite, in what
happened, and is still happening to us. We must, therefore, change
ourselves in order to end our criminal complicity in perpetuating
our lamentable condition.
bas pain
3comun
exed befdm
SITOW
07
_
aft bas
18
ew onw
od sids
BUOTIMEL
paivas!
bluow
bne ne
200
As ev
Beyond all that, we must discover where we now are in our
history. We must recognize that in 36 years of independence,
reckoning from Ghana's in 1957 (just four years short of the 40
years the Israelites spent in the wilderness!), we have been
blundering about in the neo-colonial wilderness. And we must ask:
Why did Moses lead his people into the wilderness and keep them
wandering about for two generations? I do not believe that he, a
learned man raised in the pharaoh's court, did not know the direct
route to his people's Promised Land. I believe it was a dilatory
sojourn whose tribulations were calculated to cure his people of
the legacy of slavery. You can't make a free people out of slaves
without first putting them through experiences that would purge
them of the slave mentality. We, in our own wilderness years, need
to take conscious steps to purge ourselves of the legacy of a 500-
year holocaust of slavery and colonialism. In that way, when we
17
--
finally arrive at our own Promised Land a Black World cured of
the holocaust legacy we would be ready for the new liberated
phase of our long adventure on this Earth.
To help us get our bearings in this wilderness phase, I would
suggest four main measures:
1.
anellim
The creation of Holocaust Monuments in all parts of the Black
World, as reminders of what we have been through and are determined
never again to go through. Efforts already being made in this area
should continue and be added to. I am thinking, for instance, of
the Goree Island Project in Senegal, and the Slave Route Project in
Benin Republic. But let me recommend a major monument here in
Abuja, this new capital rising in a zone that, in the past,
witnessed intensive slave raiding for the trans-Sahara slave trade.
We should erect here a monument complex that portrays scenes from
the Black Holocaust, scenes taken from all parts of the world; a
great Black Holocaust
Black Holocaust Monument that shall serve as the Black