07/05 99 09:49 FAX 01818809101
06/05/1999 07:46
01517079820
BERNIE GRANT MP
GRANBY TOXTETH PSHIP
PAGE 03
June 1996
Charles Wootton News
The African Reparations Movement
'A Call as old as Justice' - by Dorothy Kuya
THE case for reparations for African peoples is not
new, it has been debated throughout the centuries,
whenever African peoples have met together to dis-
cuss their rights. I remember being at a Black commu-
nity conference in the early seventies, when a resolu-
tion was put demanding reparations for all people of
African descent. Then, as now, it was not just a
demand for money, but for a recognition of the injus-
tices, the indignities and the brutality experienced by
people of African descent, throughout slavery and
colonialism and in present times under neo-colonial-
ism and racism
African
emigration. Time was spent in concentration camps
because of racial, religious and political persecution.
Other burdens were caused by loss of life of family
members and sometimes whole communities, as well
as social and institutional disorder. There was also the
economic cost of war, value of civilian goods and ser-
vices lost because of the war. Payments have been
made to individuals, institutions and states, in cash
and kind, goods and services, capital equipment, land
farm and forest products. All of the above terms could
apply to African peoples and their terrible experiences
throughout the centuries.
Reparations
Reparations was an issue when Britain
abolished slavery. The then British
parliament voted £20 million com-
pensation to be paid to the Slaves
Owners, but not a penny for those
who had been slaves. Owners of
slaves in Brazil were also rewarded.
In the United States, at the time of eman-
cipation in the 1860's each freed slave was
promised 40 acres and a mule'. The
promise was not kept. In New York in 1969,
James Foreman of the Students Non-Violent
Coordination Committee, called upon the white
churches to pay $500 million in reparation for slav-
ery and racism. That demand has been ignored. In
1989 the Congressional Black Caucus instituted a bill
in the US Congress for Reparations. This was unsuc
cessful. Clearly a new strategy was needed if African
peoples were to be successful in their righteous
demands.
Research has been done into the success of other
groups of oppressed peoples in seeking and obtaining
reparations. Japanese Americans were successful in
obtaining compensation from the US government for
the victimisation they experienced during World War
II (WWII). The US Government paid reparations to
the government of Colombia because they excised the
territory of Panama from that country. There are also
claims in the pipelines by the Sioux Peoples to the
Black Lands of Dakota, as well as by other native
American groups, against the US govemment.
After the First World War. German liability for the
damage they caused, was fixed at 132 billion gold.
marks. Following WWII, the European Allies filed
claims against Germany for $320 billion. Italy and
Finland have also had claims made against them for
the same period. The basis of these claims were that,
as a result of the wartime activities of these countries
there was: bodily loss, loss of liberty and of property,
injury to professional careers, dislocation and forced
West Germany has made large reparations
to the Jewish people, e.g. it has paid to
Israel $2 billion to make amends to
victims of Nazi persecution, $952 mil-
lion in personal indemnities, $37.70 in
monthly pensions to each inmate of a
concentration camp. Israel was given
$820 million to settle 50.000 Jewish
emigrants from lands formerly con-
trolled by Hitler. Since then more has
been given to individuals and institu-
tions. The latest being S63 million to
50,000 Jewish people from East Germany.
These may be large sums of money but they
can never fully replace the suffering and losses
experienced by millions of Jews during World War II.
In recent cases Iraq had to pay reparations for its inva-
sion of Kuwait. A few years ago land and money was
made over to some of the Maori people of New
Zealand, as well as a formal and public apology by
Queen Elizabeth 1, for past deeds. There are other
steps being taken to restore to other native peoples in
Canada and Australia, their land and wealth which
was plundered. There has been recent publicity about
the plight of Aborigine people who were forcibly
removed from their families and put out to adoption to
white families. They are to sue the Australian govern-
ment. In relation to art and cultural objects, there are
many demands being made by European governments
for the return of significant items which were stolen
by other Europeans. The Elgin Marbles in the British
Museum are a case in point. A recent dispute has
arisen about the Trojan Treasure currently on display
in Moscow. The Germans claim it as theirs, and was
Stolen by the Russian Army when they defeated the
Germans after WWII. The Greek govemment has now
stepped in to claim the treasure as it was stolen by a
German who dug it up in the last century.
The right to reparations has strong legal underpinning
and was recognised in international law as far back as
07/05 '99 09:24
TX/RX NO. 3427
P03
04