THE LEGAL
BASIS OF THE
CLAIM FOR
REPARATIONS
FOREWORD
Dudley J. Thompson, O.J., Q.C.
by
Lord Anthony Gifford, Q.C.
British Queens Counsel &
Jamaican Attorney-at-Law
(Paper presented to
The First Pan African
Conference
on Reparations,
Organized by
The Organization of African
Unity, Group of Eminent
Persons on Reparations, and
The Government of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria,
at Abuja, Nigeria,
April 27-29, 1993)
Published by
Lord Gifford, Q.C.
Attorney-at-Law (Jamaica)
Barrister-at-Law (U.K.)
21 Church Street,
Kingston, Jamaica
Tel: (809) 922-6056
Fax: (809) 967-0225
8 Kings Bench Walk
London, EC4Y 7DU
Tel: 171-797-8888
Fax: 171-797-8880
T
he Reparations Movement is fortunate to have as one of its early
and staunch supporters Lord Anthony Gifford, Q.C.. An
acknowledged and outstanding gladiator for Human Rights, he has
made his name in Europe as well as in Africa and Jamaica where he now
resides with his family. His sincerity and unblemished integrity blend well
with his passion for Justice, and in a surprisingly short period have
identified him as a leader at the West Indies Bar.
In April 1993 Lord Gifford attended and delivered a memorable paper
before the First Pan African conference on Reparations at Abuja. It was
on the Legal Basis of the Claim for Reparations. He has been requested
by the Group of Eminent Persons (GEP) appointed by the Summit of the
Organization of African Unity to chair the Legal Council, a sub-committee
of the Group. His paper which is frequently quoted has clarified the legal
bases of the Movement and lists many international precedents
demonstrating the justice as well as the application of the cause.
I end with some extracts of that paper and strongly recommend the full
study of the paper to all who seek to be more fully informed about the
Reparations Movement which has only just begun to touch the conscience
of the world.
"Once you accept, as I do, the truth of three propositions:
(a) that the mass kidnap and enslavement of Africans was the most
wicked criminal enterprise in recorded human history;
(b) that no compensation was ever paid by any of the perpetrators to
any of the sufferers; and
(c) that the consequences of the crime continue to be massive, both in
terms of the enrichment of the descendants of the perpetrators, and
in terms of the impoverishment of Africans and the descendants of
Africans; then the justice of the claim for Reparations is proved
beyond reasonable doubt."
"Once the claim is well founded in legal principle and well recognized by
the international community, remedies and mechanisms will be found.....
new structures have often been devised to give effect to recognized
principles. The Nuremberg War Crimes Tribunal is an example of new
legal thinking which brought a measure of justice following the atrocities of
Nazism. The International Court of Justice, where states could settle
disputes which each other by law rather than by war, was unknown at the
start of this century".
"This paper is an attempt to conceptualize a legal framework for the
formulation and prosecution of the claim for Reparations. It is argued by
reference to seven fundamental propositions....."