07/05 99 09:49 FAX 01818809101
BERNIE GRANT MP
06/05/1999 07:46 01517879820
GRANBY TOXTETH PSHIP
PAGE 04
June 1996
1928 (Chorzow Factory Case, Germany v Poland).
There is also recognition that the descendants of the
original victims of war and all its attendant acts can
continue to suffer the consequences of the original
crimes which were committed against their forbears.
The case of Israci successfully claiming reparations
from West Germany is particularly interesting as
Israel did not exist until after World War II. All of
these precedents provide a basis for people in Africa
and the African diaspora to begin to develop the struc-
tures which will enable them to mount the necessary
claims. Developments are already taking place to
expedite these.
At a meeting of the Organisation of African Unity
(OAU) held in Nigeria in December 1991, the OAU
endorsed and adopted the 'crusade for reparations'
from those countries involved in the enslavement and
colonisation of African peoples. A Group of Eminent
Persons (GEP) were enpannelled at the Dakar summit
of the OAU in 1992. Their task is to continuously
monitor the issue, to take action and advise. The First
Pan-African Conference on Reparations, sponsored by
M.K.O. Abiola and hosted by the Nigerian govern-
ment, was held in Abuja in 1993. In attendance were
delegates from thirty African countries, members
from the Diplomatic Corps of European countries.
Scholars, journalists and representatives from major
organisations in the African diaspora met to discuss
and co-ordinate 'a Pan-African Crusade' to demand
'reparations for enslavement, colonisation and neo-
colonialism', and to carry it into every area of intera-
tional politics. The conference endorsed and adopted a
declaration to take the issue forward (see Abuja
Declaration at the end of article).
Bernie Grant MP, was invited to the conference and
returned to the UK. determined to raise the issue here.
He called together a group of like-minded people.
This led to the setting up of the African Reparations
Movement UK (ARM, UK). The organisation con-
vened a national conference in Birmingham in 1994..
The ARM UK has since been consolidating its posi-
tion, developing a constitution and creating a strategy.
There is a now a small committee of founder mem-
bers. A body of sponsors of national and international-
ly known figures is being assembled, and financial
backing is being sought.
In 1993, Bernie Grant also put down a motion in the
House of Commons, which was signed by 85 mem-
bers of parliament. In March 1996, Lord Gifford
opened a debate in the House of Lords, which gave
further publicity to the issue. There is also a site on
the internet, the address is:
http://the.arc.co.uk/arm/home.html.
This has elicited tremendous interest world-wide and
thousands of enquiries are pouring into Bemie Grant's
office.
Charles Wootton News
We as African people need to have a complete under-
standing of our history if we are to undersand why we
are owed reparations. how we assess the damages.
count the costs and identify those responsible.
Chinwezu, an author as well as the editor and publish-
er of Black Renaissance, and a member of the GEP,
dates the beginning of the destruction of Africa from
the 'millennia before 525BC, when Black Egypt fell
permanently to white invaders'. leaving Africa open
to continuous invasion since. A pre-requisite to resti-
tution must be 'apologies for ancient wrongs', from
all those countries responsible for the African holo-
caust. An example of what is meant by reparations is
the cancellation of debts which have developed in
African states since independence. These should have
been gifts from the very beginning. The spiralling
debt burdens are strangling the development in those
countries, e.g. Uganda spends 17 dollars per person on
debt for every 3 dollars it is able to spend on health.
Zambia spent 37 million dollars on primary education
from 1990 to 1993. while it spent 1.3 million dollars
on debt repayment. One African health official said.
every time World Bank people visit our country hun-
dreds more of our children die. Cancelling all debts
and interest on those debts has to be the beginning of
reparations. Dudley Thompson, a Jamaican QC, states
that it is not too late for reparations to be made to
African peoples, as there is no law of limitations
on murder and genocide'. Reparations must not only
be to the people and states of Africa but also to those
people of African descent in the Diaspora.
Reparations means also that we must rehabilitate our-
selves, only then can we make a real contribution to
the future of African peoples.
Reference
The meaning of African Reparations by Dr Kimani
Nehusi. Information sheet no. 1, ARM.UK.
Reparations and a few global order: A comparative
overview. A paper presented by Professor Chinwezu at
the 2nd plenary session of the 1st Pan-African
Conference on Reparations, Abuja, Nigeria.
27.4.1993.
Debate: Slavery Legacy, House of Lords, Palace of
Westminster, London. 14.3.1996. ref.586LD62-
PAG1/50-1/50.
The legal basis of the claim for Reparations by Lord
Anthony Gifford and Hon. Dudley Thompson, O.J..
Q.C. at the 1st Pan African Conference, Abuja,
Nigeria. 27.4.1993.
Reparations and Pan-Africanism. Presented to the
Seventh P.A.C. in Kampala, by H.E. Hon. D. Thomp-
son, O.J., Q.C. and Professor Chinwezu, on behalf of
the International Committee on Reparations (ICR)
Lagos, Nigeria.
07/05 199 09:24
TX/RX NO. 3427
P04
03