These Museums also retained selling rights of duplicates to the originals,
which of course means that enormous profits have been made. Many famous
European artists, such as Picasso, have emulated the fine and abstract
dimensional images found originally in Benin art however not a penny from
their profit has ever gone back to Benin.
Since independence in 1960, the Nigerian government has made a number of
unsuccessful requests for the restitution of the artefacts. On several
occasions, they paid exorbitant prices amounting to thousands of pounds to
retain possession of some of these artefacts back. Great offence was caused
when the British Museum and British Government refused even the loan of a
single Ivory mask which was to be a visual symbol of a vast pan-African Arts
Festival in 1977.
The looting of artworks in the course of military conflict has been outlawed in
Europe since the Napoleonic wars, and restitution of looted works within
Europe enforced. Increasingly, the morality and legality of holding art
collections seized by force is being challenged. In the true sense of justice
and self-determination, the Benin artefacts belong to the culture where they
were deprived from. The objects should be a symbol of empowerment to the
original owners. They symbolise historical and social significant which the
aesthetic and monetary value they hold in exile would never compensate.
The aim of the demonstration organised by ARM is to bring the injustices of
the 1897 event to the public attention. Indeed, the 1897 event is just one of
many forms of exploitation and subjugation that Africans had experienced
under Europeans powers in the past 500 years
aum
By demonstrating, ARM is fighting for justice for people of African descent and
for the well-being of human race in general. The demand for the return of such
artefacts is one expression of the growing movement for reparations for Africa.
For further information, please contact :
Africa Reparations Movement (UK) 081-880-9100