HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A OAA
the UK start this vital support role for countries in the South.
We were thinking of holding the rally in August/September but
would leave the exact timing to yourselves based on the
availability of Bro Mandela. We are aware of the intensity of
your efforts at this time and understand how busy you are. We
believe however that such exposure as this rally would bring could
only assist your cause which is ultimately ours.
We eagerly await your response and please rest assured that all of
Bro Mandela's expenses would be catered for.
Dear Mend
pleasure o
ng you today after auch
s her regards.
Yours in solidarity,
long
As we discussed
I am representing a major new organisation
called the Organisation of africans in cope, which is shortly to
be launched in Europe
aim is to bring togather
our own mutual support, and to
BERNIE GRANT M.P.
med about at the way in which countr
the Bouch are being treated by northern countries in the
of
of the "NEW WORLD ORDER", which has meant that the
failings of these northern countries are being paid for
countries in the south in more ways than one. Our organisat
ains to rally as mich support as possible for countrie
South, especially those in Africa.
The organisation is preparing to hold major rally in Britain,
the theme of which will be The Third World & the New World Order
The Rally will highlight the particular situation of Libya,
and North Korea as well as the Palestinian struggle, the stru
of African people in the USA and Europe and other struggles ardind
the world. It is expected that the rally will get massive support
from progressive people in Britain and we intend to have a wide
range of speakers from the countries concerned as well as the USA,
Britain etc. Preliminary soundings have already been made and the
response has been very favourable.
We would like to draw the widest possible audience and to this end
we would like to ask the ARC whether its President, Brother
Nelson Mandela would be available to address the Rally as our
keynote speaker. We believe that his presence would be the very
catalyst we need to ensure that our organisation and people