HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA
Baroness Symons,
Foreign & Commonwealth Office,
Whitehall,
London SW1A 2AH
24 November 1997
Dear Baroness Simons,
DISPLACED MONSERRATIANS ARRIVING IN THE UK.
I am growing increasingly alarmed about the utter lack of consideration being given to the
housing needs of Montserratians arriving in the UK.
They are simply being expected to join the queue along with all other homeless people, at
a time when there is a huge shortage of temporary accommodation in the London
Boroughs they are arriving in. This means that for many families, bed and breakfast is likely
to be the destination for periods of up to a year or so. Frequently this is outside of the
borough, since all in-borough temporary accommodation is already used up. Much of this
bed and breakfast accommodation is of a shocking standard, and quite unsuitable for those
arriving from Montserrat. This is also creating problems as regards schooling for many
families, who are having to send children back to the receiving borough in order to go to
school.
Let me take a case in point. Mrs Verna White, of 89, Wallwood Road, E11, has been
placed in bed and breakfast accommodation in Waltham Forest by Redbridge Council. She
has been placed in one room, along with her 14 year old daughter (I believe she has
learning difficulties) and 17 year old son, which in itself is quite disgraceful. The children
are attending two separate schools back in Redbridge, and Mrs White has to accompany
her daughter to school and back every day every day, at considerable expense. Redbridge
tells me that it has a crisis of temporary accommodation, and that it cannot foresee being
able to move Mrs White in the near future.
In my view it is quite unacceptable that traumatised Montserratians are being treated in this
way, and that the Government must now look at prioritising their housing needs, either by
giving appropriate instructions and resources to local authorities, by securing the co-
operation of housing associations ( I know that some of the black associations would be
willing to assist), or by commissioning suitable temporary accommodation in some way.