00000
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A 0AA
Brother Mendi Msimang,
Chief Representative,
ANC,
28 Penton Street, of holding the
LONDON N1 ve
be
your ef
Leve
exact timing
for countrTel: 081 800 5994
Fax: 081 800 8775
rally in Aug
to yourselves
to yo
the
of Bro Mandela are aware of
of
yo
We
at this time and understand how busy
er that such exposure as this rally would
only assist your cause which is ultimately ours.
12th May 1992
We ea
ait your response and please rest assured that all of
Bro Man la's ma
expenses would be catered for.
Dear Mendi,
It was a pleasure meeting you today after such a seemingly long
time and Sharon also sends her regards.
As we discussed, I am representing a major new organisation
called the Organisation of Africans in Europe, which is shortly to
be launched in Europe
Our aim is to bring together black
citizens of Europe both for our own mutual support, and to provide
a voice for Africa in Europe.
ERNIE CRANT
We are especially concerned about at the way in which countries in
the South are being treated by northern countries in the context
of the "NEW WORLD ORDER", which has
has meant that the economic
failings of these northern countries are being paid for by the
countries in the South in more ways than one. Our organisation
aims to rally as much support as possible for countries in the
South, especially those in Africa.
The organisation is preparing to hold a major rally in Britain,
the theme of which will be The Third World & the New World Order.
The Rally will highlight the particular situation of Libya, Cuba
and North Korea as well as the Palestinian struggle, the struggle
of African people in the USA and Europe and other struggles around
the world. It is expected that the rally will get massive support
from progressive people in Britain and we intend to have a wide
range of speakers from the countries concerned as well as the USA,
Britain etc. Preliminary soundings have already been made and the
response has been very favourable.
We would like to draw the widest possible audience and to this end
we would like to ask the ANC whether its President, Brother
Nelson Mandela would be available to address the Rally as our
keynote speaker. We believe that his presence would be the very
catalyst we need to ensure that our organisation and people in