HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA
One possibility would be to alter the rules in the case of Montserratians, so that if they are
able to find suitable temporary accommodation in the private sector, they can still be
regarded as homeless from the point of view of eventual re-housing by local authorities.
You testified before the Select Committee recently that local authorities are to be given a
grant of some £1500 to assist them in housing Montserratians. I was pleased at the time
to hear this. However it appears that this grant is only available to those who arrive here
through the MAPS scheme, and who are directed to a local authority by Travelcare. Those
who present directly to a local authority do not attract this subsidy. This really is most
unfair on the very boroughs who have borne the brunt of receiving Montserratians in recent
months. In Haringey, and I believe Hackney, for example, already under severe pressure
because of their position as major refugee "receiver" boroughs, most Montserratians have
reported directly to the local authority Housing Departments, having arrived there because
of the presence of friends and family in the resident population. These boroughs will
therefore receive this subsidy in very few cases indeed, and yet these are the very ones
who need assistance.
Presumably those local authorities who condescend to accept the odd Montserratian here
and there, will receive the subsidy, whereas those who are taking the bulk of them will
receive little. I know that my own local authority is extremely angry that despite all its
efforts in recent months to assist in the Montserratian crisis, they are being discriminated
against so far as the subsidy is concerned. Perhaps you could tell me how many subsidies
have been paid, and to which boroughs, and also press the Department of the Environment
to review the position urgently.
I would be most grateful if you would liaise with he relevant departments on both these
issues, and let me know as a matter of urgency what can be done.
Yours sincerely,
BERNIE GRANT
MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT FOR TOTTENHAM