00000
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SW1A OAA
MINUTES OF A MEETING HELD BETWEEN MR. BERNIE GRANT M.P. AND MR.
AFIF SAFIEH OF THE PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANISATION ON 10TH
JANUARY 1991
1. Baghdad Trip
The main purpose of Mr. Grant's trip to Iraq was to establish the
Iraqi position. This was of particular importance due to biased
media accounts of the situation.
Mr. Safieh wondered about the elasticity of the Iraqi bargaining
position. Mr. Grant said that he believed this to be quite sound
He also felt
and felt that their demands were quite reasonable.
that they were keen to negotiate. He stressed the importance of
linkage with the Palestinian situation especially in view of the
fact that the Palestinian struggle had been going on for forty-two
He also felt
years and the Iraqi situation for only five months.
that it was significant that the Iraqis had stood firm against the
powerful American empire and that there
and that there was support among Third
World countries for this initiative. In saying this Mr. Grant
stressed that he does not support what Saddam Hussein has done and
is very much aware of the atrocities that he has carried out.
2. Current situation
Both Mr. Grant
Grant and Mr.
and Mr. Safieh were in agreement that the
Switzerland negotiations looked at the outset quite hopeful and
If this
that it looked as if a breakthrough might have occurred.
had been the case, this would have meant an acceptance of the
The media
linkage between the Palestinian and Iraqi situations.
are slow to admit the possibility of this linkage.
In
Mr. Grant feels that although it is commonly held that oil is the
most important issue in this crisis, he sees this as being
secondary.
He sees the real issue as being military power.
his view, the United States will not be satisfied with merely
ousting Saddam Hussein from Iraq, they will want to position a
government favourable to American interests there to protect these
interests.
3. Change in Public Opinion?
Mr. Grant felt that attitudes were changing gradually and
and that
public opinion is now shifting towards peace. Mr. Safieh
expressed approval at the change in the attitude of the Labour
Party. Mr. Grant said that this was very positive as it displayed
a marked difference between the attitudes of the two main parties.