Those responsible for bombing Flight 103 must be brought to
justice. But would the two Libyans get a fair trial in Britain or
the US? The cases of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six
show that we cannot rely on our judicial system to deal
impartially with highly politicised offences such as this one.
There are no extradition treaties or diplomatic relations
between Britain or the US and Libya. This makes the handover
of the two accused men illegal under Libyan law. The British
government itself admits that there is no framework in
international law for their demands. On the contrary, the 1971
Montreal Convention obliges the Libyan authorities to
investigate and try the crime themselves, which they are doing.
ansilivio ment to violem or belli
From the beginning of the investigation into the bombing,
suspicion centred on Palestinian groups with links to Syria and
Iran. A member of one such group was arrested in Germany in
possession of a bomb like the one that blew up Flight 103.
Despite this, he was released, allegedly because he was an
undercover agent for the German authorities. Scottish police
have never been able to interview him. Now that Syria and Iran
are allies of Britain and the US, they have suddenly disappeared
from the investigation.
801
The Arab League has proposed a special international judicial
inquiry into the matter. Others have suggested that the case
should should be dealt with by the International Court of
Justice. But these suggestions - acceptable under international
law and to the Libyan government - have been rejected out of
hand by the US and British authorities. They prefer to try and
impose sanctions through the UN Security Council.
Are Britain and the US afraid of the truth coming out?
The No Intervention in Libya (NIL!) Campaign has been
set up to ensure that there is no repetition of the
barbaric attacks on Tripoli and Benghazi.
We are also opposed to sanctions because of the disastrous
impact that they would have on the economy of Libya and the
whole Maghreb region. Instability resulting from the rise of
Islamic fundamentalism would only be worsened by the
economic damage sanctions would cause.
NIL! is a broad based campaign that already enjoys support
from organisations and individuals in the Labour Movement and
Britain's black communities as well as the churches and the
legal establishment. We believe:
1. That there should be an independent international judicial
inquiry into the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, with which all
relevant national authorities must co-operate fully.
2. That the British and US governments must respect
international law, and withdraw their threats of economic and
military action against Libya.
3. That there must be a full public inquiry in Britain into the
bombing of Flight 103, and the subsequent investigation.
seratost a
Initial sponsors include: Bill Bowring, Haldane Soc (PC); Harpal
Brar, Indian Workers Assn (PC); The British Afro-Asian Solidarity
Orgn; The Campaign Group of Labour MPs; Jeremy Corbyn MP;
Rev Maxwell Craig; Tam Dalyell MP; Bernie Grant MP; Lord
Hatch of Lusby; Orgn of Africans in Europe; Dacha Valent MEP.
Join us today.