People's Progressive Party of Guyana
(United Kingdom Branch)
Free and Fair Elections
Dear Mr. B.A.M. Grant.mp.
1 OCT 1990
14 Queens privest
Acton
London W3OHA.
24th Sept 1990.
General Elections are due in GUYANA by March 1991. The last elections were
held in 1985 and, as was the case with previous elections since 1968, they
were blatantly rigged. To give you an insight into the Guyana Government's
history and present practices in respect of human rights violations and es-
pecially as regards rigged elections, we are enclosing a set of documentat-
ion for your perusal.
Indications are that the up-coming elections will suffer the same fate un-
less pressure is exerted on the Guyana Government from both inside and out-
side the country.
Guyanese are fully aware of the vital role they have to play to bring about
free and fair elections in their homeland. At the same time, they recognise
that unless outside pressure is brought to bear on the government of the day,
the fulfillment of their aspirations will again be denied. It is in the con-
text of another impending rigged election that we seek your support for our
just cause for free and fair elections, and the restoration of democracy,
in Guyana.
We sincerely hope that you would, after carefully considering the attached
APPEAL, find favour with its content and spirit and attach your signature to
it, thereby demonstrating your support and solidarity with the Guyanese peo-
ple's just aspirations. Please return the signed appeal using the enclosed
stamped addressed envelope.
We propose publishing the APPEAL as a paid advertisement in two or three nat-
ional newspapers in the UK, the objective being to sensitize the general pub-
lic on the fundamental problem affecting the Guyanese people and nation, and
as a means of exerting pressure on the British Government to exercise its un-
doubted influence to ensure that the up-coming elections in Guyana are free
and fair. We would appreciate any donations to defray the cost of this effort.
Thanking you for your kind co-operation, we hope to receive your positive res-
ponse as soon as possible, preferably by the 26th October 1990.
Yours sincerely,
KM. led
•
Kasim M Bacchus.
Secretary.
)
PS. For further information please contact: LKN Singh 081 527 7977 (home)
B Sookram 081 698 7231 ( "
KM Bacchus 081 993 4894 (" )
0483 466 202 (Buis)
Cheques/postal orders should be made payable to PPP of Guyana (UK Branch).
General Secretary: Dr. C.B. Jagan
Freedom House, 41 Robb St., Lacytown, Georgetown, Guyana