STATEMENT BY THE BLACK TRADE UNIONISTS SOLIDARITY MOVEMENT ON GRENADA
30
The Black Trade Unionists Solidarity Movement totally condemns the invasion
of Grenada by forces of the United States of America, Jamaica, Barbados,
Dominica, St Vincent, St Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda. This act of
treachery by Black countries is particularly repugnant in view of the racist
policies of the United States of America.
We also condemn these 6 Black countries for reneging on the agreement of the
Caricom countries that there should be no military intervention in Grenada.
These countries were party to this agreement but went behind the backs of the
Caricom countries to conclude a dirty deal with the USA.
We believe that these countries have been panicked by the success of the
Grenadian Revolution in providing basic rights like free education,
healthcare and employment to its citizens. At the same time, they have
consistently denied these rights to their own citizens whilst corruption in
all these Governments is widespread, encouraged by the USA and the
multinational companies.
We believe that this act of betrayal of Black People will not be forgotten
and we call on citizens of these 6 countries to take steps to remove their
Heads of Government.
We also condemn the Thatcher Government for complicity in United States
racism and imperialism in invading a small Black country. We note that this
Government failed to heed the clear warnings of the invasion just as it
failed to heed the warnings of the French intention to prevent Black Britons
from entering France. We believe that the British Government allowed the
invasion to proceed on the basis that a puppet quisling Government would be
installed in Grenada to do the bidding of the USA and Britain.
We believe that the invasion by the USA follows the American Government's
policies of denying Blacks their rights in the USA. It is also clear,
however, that America intends to try and dominate all the non-white peoples
of the world as well as those peoples who have rejected Capitalism. Grenada
has proven that the revolutionary ideas of 110,000 people could shake to its
very roots a nation of 200 million people to such an extent, that it was
forced to abandon any pretence of morality or legality and resort to the use
of naked force and brutality against the revolutionary ideas of the People's
Revolutionary Government under Maurice Bishop.
121
We further condemn those responsible for the execution of Prime Minister
Maurice Bishop, Ministers Jacqueline Creft, Unison Whiteman, Larry Bain,
Trade Union leaders Vince Noel and Fitzroy Bain, and the other ordinary
Grenadian citizens who sought to free their Leader.
YT
We believe that these executioners will be dealt with in due course but their
atrocities must not be allowed to cloud the issue of the invasion of a
sovereign state.
We mourn the loss of Cuban and Grenadian lives in their heroic struggle
against enormous odds and congratulate the people of revolutionary Cuba for
their support in building the revolution. We believe that no amount of guns
will destroy the gains of the revolution and that the revolutionary struggle
will continue in Grenada.
We reaffirm that the peoples of Grenada, Cuba, Nicaragua, El Salvador,
Surinam and the other countries in the Caribbean, Central and South America.
and the rest of world have an absolute right to self-determination without
the intervention of the USA.
We believe that Black people in particular should learn the lessons of
Grenada so as to turn this tragic episode of our history into one which
unites all Black people throughout the world.