Rev. Jesse Jackson,
Rainbow Coalition,
WASHINGTON, D.C.
15th July 1994
Dear Jesse,
00
HOUSE OF COMMONS
LONDON SWIA OAA
We want to thank you sincerely for all you did last week. You
raised our spirits, and we loved every minute of your visit. Our
whole team is still bursting with pride - Derek is still on cloud
nine and can't stop talking about what a thrill it was to drive
you around.
-
You certainly had a big impact here everyone is still talking
about your visit, and there's no doubt it gave the community a big
boost. They all want to know when you're coming back.
The press coverage has been good too, and we had a lot of press
interest after you left. Enclosed is a copy of the two interviews
you gave to the black press, and other cuttings. We'll send other
coverage with Yusef when he comes over next week. BBC World
Service will send me a tape of the International Profile you did
for them, and we'll send it on to you.
Also, as requested, are enclosed the contact numbers for the
people who were with us for dinner last Thursday.
You also wanted to be reminded to send a signed photo of yourself
and President Mandela to Andrew Gilkes, who trimmed your hair. His
address is Supreme Hair Design, 12, West Green Road, Tottenham,
London N15.
Finally, there is a good deal of interest in your coming in the
Autumn for a speaking tour
tour around Britain, and we would be
delighted to co-ordinate this. As you know there is a good chance
of getting some funding. If you are willing to come, can you give
us some definite dates when you'd be available ? Obviously there
would be a lot of work to be done to find venues, raise the money,
etc., and we would need to have a firm date to proceed.
The tour could of course be a launching pad to establish a Rainbow
Coalition here, and we plan to have a
have a small meeting shortly to
discuss the potential here for this. Is it possible for us to have
some documentation about NRC's aims, objectives, and structures so
that we have a starting point for this discussion ? I hope that