BACKGROUND
The
Black
International
Construction
Organisation (BICO) is a UK based voluntary
organisation which has emerged out of the desire
of black professionals to assist in articulating the
development agenda of particular groups both in
the UK, and internationally. We aim to contribute
positively to the development work that is already
underway in inner city areas in the UK, and in
African, Caribbean, and Pacific countries by
working in partnership with governments, the
private sector, community-based organisations,
and individuals with a special emphasis on
disadvantaged groups.
HISTORY
In March 1995 a group of Black professionals
from the construction industry in the UK launched
a paper entitled Building E = Quality.
Quality. At the
launch a specialist group articulated the need to
extend this theme towards the United Kingdom's
International Development Programme.
I+H
玺
MISSION STATEMENT
THE WIN-WIN PHILOSOPHY'
To facilitate the creation of an ethical enabling
environment that will foster the design of
sustainable systems and processes in all aspects
of provision for the built environment, with a
view to creating an equitable stakeholdership in
humanity.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
E
AIMS and OBJECTIVES
*
To create a platform that will assist
debate on pertinent issues that affectprovision for
the built environment globally, with an emphasis
onAfrican Caribbean and
and Pacific (ACP)
countries.
*
-
To positively encourage the participation
of women in all relative spheres in the process of
provision for the built environment.
*
30
*
Unstoppable world urbanisation is now a reality.
The planet's urban population is expected to
double in the next twenty years. In 1990 only
15% of the 6.1 billion strong human race lived in
urban areas. By the year 2030 city dwellers will
make up 66% of the population. 90% of this
massive growth will occur in the developing
world.
It is in fulfilment of this need, and in highlighting
the very important dimension of culture in social
as well economic development that BICO will
play a role.
We propose to do this by adopting the two
concepts of the 'EVOLUTIVE ETHOS', and the
concept of ' THE WIN-WIN PHILOSOPHY'
"To fail to plan is to plan to fail" "
To provide training and
capacity
building, consultancy services, organise seminars
, lectures, exhibitions and workshops, that reflect
the dimension of culture.
To act as facilitators and enablers to
Community Based Organisations (CBO) and Non
Governmental Organisations (NGO) in African
Caribbean and Pacific countries, under the Lome
onvention with a view to creating a greater
nse of stakeholdership and awareness of
Sustainable development.
*
To publish, edit and collect a database of
information for provision for the built
environment in the ACP countries including
cataloguing and archiving of Urban/Rural space
including built form in these regions.
To assist other Charity Organisations
including bi-lateral and multi lateral agencies in
their development agenda.
the
To be the first point of contact for, and
national authority on, sustainable
development in developing countries
*
To represent the interest of black
professionals in the built environment in all
sections of industry, commerce, the arts and
education, irrespective ofprofessional discipline.