What have we done?
Place, Environment, and Development
1996
Participation in setting up this ground-breaking Masters programme between the South Bank University, UK,
and the University of Science and Technology, Ghana.
Policy Work
-
1997
BICO's position paper, the "Win-Win Philosophy" -submitted to the House of Commons select
committee on International Development was included in the appendices of the Government's International
Development Committee's second report for "The Development White Paper". This is indicative of BICO's
potential as an agent for change.
FIG.1
Action spaces in planned intervention
PAS: Possible Action Space
RAS: Realised Action Space
(Counter forces)
Hierarchy
Inertia
Subversion
Degeneration
Corruption
IDEAS
SOCIAL RELATIONS
(Counter forces)
Social domination
Tokenism
Coercion
Conflict
Opposition
Projectising
Reform
GOVERNANCE
(Planned intervention)
RAS
Competence
PAS
Mobilisation
The WIN-WIN Philosophy
Black International Construction Organisation
November 1997
LIMITS
ORGANISATION
STRUCTURAL
(ECONOMIC)
Joint Ventures
1998
Invited by the Department for International Development to submit more detailed proposals for their
'Knowledge for better health and population policy and practice in poorer countries' programme - in
association with Aficia (UK) (Aid for children in Africa with Disabilities).
What are we currently doing?
Preparing a position paper - 'A perspective of ACP-EU Co-operation' - for submission to the
parliamentary sub-committee on International Development.
Preparing joint 3-day seminar on Good governance in the construction industry with Community
Services Systems, West Africa Help Foundation, and Private Enterprise Foundation, Ghana.
Preparing joint conference with AFICIA (UK) on disabilities in Africa - Sept. 1999
What can you do? & What you can do!
You too can affirm your stakeholdership in humanity in one of several interesting ways.
You too can bring your faith to the 'Faith-Exchange'.
Contact our chair Mr. Ron Nathan at the number below for an informal chat
Contact us by e-mail as below
BICO
Black International Construction Organisation
Taylor House, 67 Melfort Road, Thornton Heath, Surrey, CR7 7RT
Tel: 0171 738 3636 Fax: 0181 251 2051 e-mail: bico@abena.demon.co.uk
To Fail To Plan is To Plan To Fail