8
WHY WE NEED BTUSM.
BLACK TRADE UNIONIST
9.
BTUSM
SOCIAL
to
Black immigration concentrated arrival in the
late 50s early 60s all heading to the labour
market in the transport industry as bus
conductors, guards on trains and underground,
porters. In hospitals, as nurses and other
supernumary grades. These were the jobs the
white people did not want. Most of these
jobs were the life line of those who came,
trying to better their lot and influence of
their destiny. The Trade Union movement in
all or most of these work areas either
canvassed membership, or membership of the
Trade Union was a condition of employment.
It soon became clear that racial discrim-
ination was an evil that the black workforce
had to overcome. Groups of white liberals
having a twitch of conscience mobilised with
the blacks to press Governments for changes.
These changes are manifest in the succession
of Race Relations legislation.
During this time, people in work places were
facing blatant discrimination either being
practised or by policy interpretation. Many
stories have been told which showed that the
Trade Union movement ducked the issue of
racial discrimination in the workplace.
Words from the Trade Union like 'personality
clash', 'shop floor banter' were used to
smooth over the problems. In some cases the
white Trade Union shop stewards with their
committees refused to train black operatives
so that they could not be graded higher.
Only in the battle for supremacy among
vbs
Certainly in large work places the Trade
Unions have looked after wages and conditions
in the interests of all workers. They see
this as their primary role, but fail to
understand that conditions which are
negotiated for a multi-racial workforce
need to reflect the needs of the black
groups within it.
There has been the industrial machinery which
looked at grievances of the workforce but
none have to date been able to come to a
decision that discrimination occurred where
such complaints are made. Many of these wo
cases were considered by the old Race
Relations Board. It had a higher success
rate than the work place industrial machinery
Attention was drawn to this by members of the
old Race Relations Board Conciliation
Committee who at that time pointed out this
failure.
Having considered the inherent problems that
exist within a society that treats the
different Unions did some of these cases come majority of black workers as people without
to light. This occurred at Standard
Telephone Company.
We can look back 25 years and see the
struggles in which black members of the
Trade Union movement participated, and yet it
is only very recently that there are any
blacks in some key positions within the Union
structure. The TUC only recently published a
Black Workers Equal Opportunities Charter.
It's a step forward but there is very little
pressure from within the Trade Union movement
to ensure the contents of the Charter are
implemented. Yes, agreements have been
negotiated but implementation is virtually
non existent. The local Trade Unions seem
reluctant to make sure positive action is
taken by those with whom agreements are made
to eradicate discrimination.
ambition the Black Trade Unionist Solidarity
Movement has arrived.
This organisation intends to work within
the existing TUC structure to fight for
changes and assist those black trade unionist
who are suffering from the results of the
inability of the Trade Union movement to meet
their needs.
When one begins to analyse the situation the
only conclusion at which one arrives is that
the Trade Union movement has failed its black
members.
By Sam Springer
Hood
zoqque bas
BTUSM Members organised a Disco and Food Night, to recruit
members and raise funds,
MOAJ8
The Social was held at Haringey Trade Union Centre and raised
£89.00.
000000000000000
The Black Trade Unionists Solidarity Movement has been
in operation since December '81, when a group of Black
Workers came together to begin a united movement of all
Black people in Britain, to pressurize the existing
institutions, and fight for our rights.
If you are of Asian, African or Carribean descent,
employed/unemployed, send for an application form and
join the BTUSM,
Please send me
(number) application form(s).
NAME (INDIVIDUAL ORGANISATION)
ADDRESS
Post slip to: Neville Adams, 115 Neville Road, N16.