6.
7.
AMES
Norr
ma
Tebbit Rides on
unwick's
Gr
Grave
1.
The foundation of Norman Tebbit's Anti-Union
Laws can be traced back to the unheeded
lessons of Grunwick. The present Tory
Government is now reaping the benefits of
TUC's lack of courage in not going the whole
way.
TUC's lack of conviction in tackling estab-
lishment's opposition to secondary picketting,
closed shop, etc., has given Tebbit and his
kind the platform to tighten the noose round
Trade Unions.
Grunwick's History
2 on odd of
In the
Grunwick is a perfect example of exploitation
of Black workers by racist employers.
mail order and photographic processing
sections of the firm 99% of the workforce
were Asian. Taking advantage of racism in
employment which prevents Black workers from
finding any form of work, the management
selectively recruited Asian workers, they
then quite ruthlessly proceeded to exploit
workers. Compulsory overtime from 7.30 a.m.
to 10.30 at night was commonplace. Working
conditions were appalling, one toilet between
200 workers, pregnant women told they could
not go to clinics during weekdays (knowing
full well there were no clinics at weekends).
New employees were sacked on the spot if they
asked for sick leave. Grunwick, a Dickensian
workplace thriving on racism of the 20th
century, management blatantly contravening
rights of employees and standards of working
conditions stipulated in the Employment Acts,
knowing that a racist White society and a
non-unionised workforce would not challenge.
Gradually the management stepped up the
pressure on the workers. A league table was
introduced of people processing number of
films each week. This competitiveness
amongst workers increased productivity for
the management whilst workers began to feel
more insecure as people in the lowest
position in the table were threatened with
dismissal.
Then one day enough was enough, Mrs Jayaben
Desai and her son Sunil walked out after
being threatened by management when she
refused to do any overtime. She joined
five other workers who were sacked earlier
in the day because they protested at being
abused by the management.
3.
The Union
The seven workers led by Mrs Desai con-
vinced others to join in the struggle and
formed a strike-committee. On the advice
of the local Citizens Advice Bureau the
strikers chose APEX as their Union
(Association of Professional Executive and
Clerical Staff). Half the workforce did not
join APEX for the fear of losing their jobs.
Pickets
4.
APEX was not recognised as a legitimate
union by the management led by George Ward.
The workers then started picketting Grunwick.
This was proving to be quite successful,
effectively cutting the turnover by half.
After unsuccessfully trying negotiations with
the management APEX appealed to the machinery
of the Labour movement to paralyse Grunwick.
For three days the Postal Workers supported
the strike and stopped Grunwick's mail.d
2900
However, Tom Jackson the Post Office Union
Leader got cold feet when he was threatened
by George Ward (Grunwick's boss) with Court
Action with the help of the National
Association of Freedom, a Tory right-wing
Fascist Group.
to
The Sell Out
After two years of intense struggle, with
victory in sight Black people led by Mrs
Desai were sold out. Labour Party and the
TUC did not challenge the law behind which
the management aided by the Tories was
hiding. The issues of secondary picketting
and unionization of workforce (closed shop)
were sacrificed by the TUC. The legal wrang-
ling that followed and finally the recourse
to government enquiry led by the establishmen
stalwart, Lord Scarman, was the final straw.
Mrs Desai disillusioned took her strike
committee and started a hunger strike outside
Len Murray's Congress House. She felt that
the higher eschelons of the TUC and Labour
Party had betrayed the working class and
joined forces with the capitalist exploiters.
The death of the British Working Class had
begun in earnest.
Rana Sarkar
5.
SU
National Focus
exedat te bere
The strike was grabbing more and more head-
lines, not only was it an issue of the right
to unions of every worker but also Black
workers demonstrating great unity and courage
against tremendous odds. The media which is
a voice of the establishment created an atmos-
phere of opposition to Unions. Declining
economy was attributed to growing Trade Union
power.
6
be
Pressure from the Top
The Labour Government of James Callaghan was
worried that Thatcher might ask for an early
election amidst Grunwick's mayhem. Callaghan
took the easy option and pressed Len Murray
of the TUC to call off the mass picketting,
and support for the strikers.
Mrs. Desan to Len Murray
"I will not remove my hunger strike.
you, and I want
The world.
from your door stepfo expose you to
dou