The Global Trade Centre
The Global Trade Centre (the GTC), whose Headquarters is based in Tottenham
was founded by the late Bernie Grant, MP to promote international trade as an
instrument of regeneration, employment creation and development.
Areas such as Tottenham, with particularly high rates of unemployment amongst
black and minority ethnic communities, were traditionally seen as disadvantaged.
Bernie, on the other hand, recognised that these communities are a unique asset for
their local economies. They have natural links with their countries of origin
encompassing language, culture and informal networks, and, by encouraging such
communities to generate and sustain trade with their 'home' regions, he felt that
economic activity could be created for the benefit of all. Bernie successfully
harnessed the necessary support from agencies such as the North London Training
and Enterprise Council and the Upper Lee Valley Partnership, and launched the
unique Centre in September 1997.
The GTC adopts a holistic approach in helping start-ups and businesses, which are
supported through the entire process of setting up operations, sourcing products and
markets to completing transactions. Its aim is to see small and medium sized
enterprises gain a share of the market to which they currently have no access.
-
The GTC, however, is more than simply a national trade promotion and business
development agency. Beyond local economic regeneration, the Centre seeks to help
economically poor countries particularly in the African, Caribbean and Pacific
regions, to diversify and broaden their trade relations with the UK and the rest of the
world. Its approach is to achieve sustainable economic development based on
mutual fair trade, rather than aid. In addition to the promotion of trade, this area of
the Centre's activities embodies capacity-building work with both public and private
Sectors.
Under Bernie's Chairmanship which lasted until his death, the GTC established a
branch in South London with the support of the LB Lewisham enabling it to help
large numbers of small businesses and start-ups in south London as well as north
London. The Centre's activities included undertaking a number of trade missions on
behalf of its UK clients and hosting several meetings, trade seminars and network
events involving Embassies, High Commissions and Ministers from Overseas. More
recently, the GTC has begun working on development and capacity-building
programmes in the Eastern Caribbean and similar initiatives with a number of
African countries are at the exploration stage.
The Global Trade Centre
generating and supporting trade
between the UK, Africa and the Caribbean
For further information, please telephone: 020 8376 5222
(Fax: 020 8376 1010; or e-mail gtc@globaltrade.co.uk)