Flashpoint High Wycombe
zemitemos
enilgiosib bne etnisiamo solloq
edis li tart betziani, eri tud beжhow eri
oalb oibute siw aЯns
hepoftea tapo new
Tony Judge reports on a 'mini-riot'
that left the public asking questions
mid blo
in cinse
THIS New Year, and not for the first
time, High Wycombe came briefly into
the national spotlight for the most un-
wanted of reasons, disorder in the
streets.
While the rest of the country appears
to have celebrated with far fewer ex-
amples of the mob violence that occur-
red a year ago, this prosperous Thames
Valley town was once again the set-
ting for an ugly confrontation between
the local police and black youths.
Although the incident hardly deserved the
banner headlines it received, it was poten-
tially very serious and has left local people
and ordinary police officers asking questions
about the way it was handled, and the ad-
equacy of police cover in this town of some
120,000 population.
Just ten officers out of the twenty six on
duty were patrolling the town centre on
New Year's Eve. They were kept busy with
a series of incidents which occurred before
a clash between a mob of black youths and
some white skinheads in the early hours
lead to police intervention.
Flashpoints
THERE are two principal flashpoints of
trouble in High Wycombe, the 'multi-racial'
centre used almost exclusively by the Afro-
Caribbean members of the town's 12,000
ethnic minority residents, and the Turnpike,
a pub which has, since the closure recently
of another trouble-torn pub, become the
drinking resort for many of the unruly
element in the black community.
Just before midnight, with the Turnpike
packed to the doors, the licensee called in
the police because fights had broken out
among the crowd of over 200 predomin-
antly black customers. About six officers at-
tended, and by the use of great tact
('grovelling' one officer half jokingly des-
cribed it to me), they managed to empty the
premises.
"We got away with that one," said Sgt
Peter Bentall, "one spark and it could have
been very different."
Another officer said that the tension sur-
rounding the Turnpike incident had been
very high. "You can sus out the at-
mosphere," he said. "When you're met
with overt hostility and antagonism along
with vicious verbal abuse you know you're
not dealing with a friendly crowd. If we'd
said or done anything out of place, it would
have been very nasty."
Hard core
"
SUCH sentiments, commonplace enough
among police officers in inner city areas,
sound odd when voiced about High
Wycombe, a town which epitomises the
success story of the south east, with a
minimal unemployment rate. The trouble,
says the divisional commander, Chief
Superintendent J. L. Dewhurst, is confined
to a hard core of around 200 Afro-
Caribbean youths, all unemployed and
22
largely unemployable, who live by petty and
not so petty crime and infest the town cen-
tre, bent on mischief. Members of this
group who made the anti-police remarks in
the local paper blame the local educational
system for their plight, and in this they are
championed by their youth worker, a Ms
Sue Little, who told the paper: "Our school
system certainly doesn't do them justice.
A lot of them have no qualifications even
though they are very bright young people."
nce Bookmakers
-09 to emeldo
Fracas ied
dejovst
mupis ati
Vevel
w sig
noirlast philleggs on not A
IT was around 1.50am on New Year's Day
when a fracas occurred outside The
Anchor pub, opposite the multi-racial cen-
tre. The centre's New Year's Eve attrac-
tion was a Disco Dancing championship,
which had drawn groups of young blacks
from surrounding areas and places like
Luton and Brixton. The local police have
no doubt that some of those who turned
up were looking for trouble, and it came
unexpectedly in the shape of a fierce argu-
ment with a group of skinheads who had
been drinking at The Anchor.
"The skinheads started it, an officer told
me. "They claim that an older man was
mugged by a black guy, but it's more likely
that they started taunting the blacks who
suddenly came out mob handed. They were
ANCHO
INN
Anchor Inn
Hundreds of young blacks attacked the Anchor pub after a clash with skinheads.
Local tradespeople have complained bit-
terly about the activities of some of these
'bright young people' who have adopted the
technique known as 'steaming'. The
manager of one High Street shop speaks of
gangs of black youths who make forays into
shops with carrier bags, and immediately
split up into small groups, making it impossi-
ble for staff to watch all of them at the
same time. "These visits always involve
theft, or the 'placing' of goods for later
theft. They are getting bolder all the time
because no one dares to try and stop
them." He has written to the police de-
manding a more visible police presence in
the shopping centre, but with present man-
power problems it is unlikely that extra
patrols can be provided.
The front page story in a local paper
which came out on New Year's Eve was:
Black kids warn of rift with police. The
paper claimed: "The streets of High
Wycombe could become another Brixton if
relations between police and young blacks
don't improve." One black youth claimed:
"They can only push us so far. If we see
two Old Bill going round town we will
mouth them and if they go too far we will
lace them up." The bravado underlying the
boast recalls an incident outside the multi-
racial centre in the summer, when PC lan
Butcher was stabbed by one of a crowd of
youths following the pursuit of a stolen
motor cycle.
well tooled up with weapons they fetched
from the boots of their cars, including iron
bars and shotguns." The police suspect that
the clash with the skinheads was no more
than an unexpected diversion for those
blacks whose real purpose all along had
been to pick a fight with the law.
Police estimate that about two hundred
black youths attacked The Anchor, throw-
ing stones and breaking the pub's windows.
The police were called, and it is their alleg-
ed tardiness in arriving on the scene that is
at the hub of local complaints. The pub
landlord claims that it was not until forty
five minutes after he dialled 999 that the
police arrived.
Delay
THE police accept that there was a delay
of about half an hour before they moved in
to disperse the mob and make arrests. A
police spokesman told the Daily Express
"We didn't have enough men to deal with
the situation. We acted as soon as we re-
ceived the 999 call and set up observers at
the scene. There was no way we were go-
ing in there with just a handful of policemen,
which is all we had on duty. We decided
to get back-up from other divisions."
The small group of officers held back in
the High Street said it was not pleasant
to be told by members of the public flee-
(continued on page 24)