David Roussel-Milner
42 Main Road Wilby
Wellingborough
Northants NN8 ZUE
12th January 1995
The Editor
The Independent
1 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 SDL
Dear Sir,
that
One learns with some disgust that The World War II Commemoration Team has decided
there will be no representatives of the Caribbean or East and West Africa at the
celebrations in May. This is in spite of the tremendous contribution made by soldiers,
sailors and airmen from these areas to the achievement of victory in Europe and thus the
freedom of Britain from Nazi domination.
does
The main reason given for this ungrateful decision is that the contributions of these
territories were not at brigade strength, which can be anything from 5,000 to 15,000
men. Yet there were 374,000 East and West African troops mostly fighting the Italians in
North Africa, clearly part of the struggle to free Europe: so how many brigades
that make? Moreover, 10,000 men and women came over from the Caribbean to assist the war
effort,
many giving their lives fighting the Germans in Europe. Of the 30,000 merchant
seamen, who gave their lives keeping Britain supplied with food and armaments, 5,000
were colonial sailors, one sixth of the total.
Just one of the 6,000 West Indians who served in the RAF in Britain was Squadron Leader
P. Ulric Cross. He was awarded both the DSO and DFC after flying "a very large number of
sorties, most of which have been against such heavily defended targets as Berlin,
Hamburg, Ludwingshaven and industrial centres in the Ruhr area. ... a brave and resolute
member of aircraft crew, whose exceptional navigational ability has been an important
factor in the successes obtained" to quote from his D60 citation. Truly a member of the
few who gave so much for so many. As High Commissioner for Trinidad & Tobago until a few
months ago, he would have been known to many of the Commemoration Team; did John Major
recognise England's debt when he shook the hand of this hero turned diplomat?
Should not England also acknowledge the innumerable tanks, ambulances and mobile
canteens paid for by public subscription in the then colonies?
For example, Trinidad,
with
total population of less than half a million, had donated $2.8 million by 31
March 1943, even though the average daily wage, for those fortunate enough to have
job, was about $1 equivalent to 24 pence.
In spite of the immense contribution made by black soldiers, sailors and airmen in what
was essentially a European tribal war, recreation units for troops on leave such as the
Union Jack Club operated a colour bar, and such was the racism that in 1947 the Labour
Government had to set up
the British Colonies Club in Trafalgar Square SO that
"coloured" troops could relax in peace. This was managed by Paul and Carmen England,
herself from Trinidad, until the incoming Tory Government pusillanimously closed it down
in 1952. It seems that, as far as English gratitude and racism is concerned, nothing has
changed.
Yours faithfully,
David Roussel-Milner