20+4
Program of Events
Bernie Grant M.P.
Bernie Grant, M.P. is the Member of British Parliament for Tottenham, in North London,
England. Elected to Parliament in 1987, he is the senior of the first ever Black M.P.'s
elected to the British Parliament in that year. He is a member of the British Labour Party,
and Chair of the Socialist campaign group of Labour M.P.'s
He has taken a leading role in making contacts with Black politicians throughout the world,
including the congressional Black Caucus in the United States. He accompanied the Rev.
Jesse Jackson on his mission to South African in February, 1991, meeting Nelson Mandela
shortly after his release. He is also active in attempting to bring together Black business men
and women, both in Britain and throughout the world.
Born in Guyana in 1944, he came to Britain in 1963 with his family, and found work as
a railway clerk, and later as a telephonist. He became a full time trade union official, and
was elected a local councillor in 1978, rising to become the first ever Black leader (Mayor)
of a local authority in Europe, in 1985.
He is also heavily involved in the Anti-Apartheid movement, and in the campaign to ensure
equal rights for Black people in Europe as the 21st Century approaches. He is presently
engaged in a an effort to create a network of Black citizens throughout Europe, and is the
Chair of the Standing Conference Against Racism in Europe (SCORE).
Bernie Grant's political career has led him into some conflict with the British establishment,
and he has met with the full force of the racism of the British press and media, particularly
following his defense of young people who rioted against police harassment in his inner city
constituency in 1985. He has also created controversy by wearing African dress each year
at the state opening of Parliament, and by his forthright interventions in the House of
Commons on matters affecting Black people.
He has always maintained that oppressed groups must form a political alliance if they are
to advance. He is thus regarded by many as a leading spokesperson, not only for Black
people, but also for women, the disabled, the elderly, the Irish, and for youth, as well as for
the poor and deprived.
1907540140t
I.
II.
III.
20120
1106
2014
17140
IV.
Welcome Address
Joseph White, Dean,
University of Michigan School of Business
Introduction of Speaker
Ojelanki Ngwenyama, Assistant Professor,
University of Michigan School of Business
"The Resurgence of Racism in Europe: Implications
for the International Anti-Racist and Anti-Fascist Campaign"
Bernie Grant
Member of British Parliament
Closing Remarks
Ojelanki Ngwenyama, Assistant Professor,
University of Michigan School of Business
•Reception immediately following the presentation in the
Robert Hayden Lounge,
Center for Afro-American and African Studies (CAAS)
West Engineering Building